Resource: Resource: Company Name: Tesla, Inc.

Business summary:
 ITEM 1. BUSINESS ##TABLE_END We design, develop, manufacture and sell high-performance fully electric vehicles and advanced electric vehicle powertrain components. We own our sales and service network and have operationally structured our business in a manner that we believe will enable us to rapidly develop and launch advanced electric vehicles and technologies. We believe our vehicles, electric vehicle engineering expertise, and operational structure differentiates us from incumbent automobile manufacturers. 

We are the first company to commercially produce a federally-compliant electric vehicle, the Tesla Roadster, which achieves a market-leading range on a single charge combined with attractive design, driving performance and zero tailpipe emissions. Our Tesla Roadster offers impressive acceleration and performance without producing any tailpipe emissions. The Tesla Roadster&#146;s proprietary electric vehicle powertrain system is the foundation of our business and, with design enhancements, will also form the basis for our Model S sedan, our Model X crossover, as well as future vehicles. 

Model S is in an advanced stage of development and is currently scheduled to commence customer deliveries by July 2012. We expect that Model S will be manufactured with an adaptable platform architecture upon which other future vehicles, including our Model X crossover, will be based. We revealed a prototype of the Model X crossover in February 2012. We plan to start Model X production in late 2013 and ramp up to significant customer deliveries in early 2014. This unique vehicle has been designed to fill the niche between the roominess of a minivan and the style of an SUV, while having high performance features such as a dual motor all-wheel drive system. 

In addition to developing our own vehicles, we provide services for the development of electric powertrain components and sell electric powertrain components to other automotive manufacturers. We have provided development services and powertrain components to Daimler AG (Daimler) for its Smart fortwo and A-Class electric vehicles. We recently announced the receipt of an initial purchase order for the development of a full powertrain system for an additional Mercedes Benz vehicle from Daimler. We also have almost completed a development services program to produce a full electric powertrain system for Toyota Motor Corporation (Toyota) for use in its RAV4 EV. We anticipate beginning to ship these systems to Toyota during the first half of 2012 under our supply and services agreement. 

The commercial production of a highway capable, fully electric vehicle that meets consumers&#146; range and performance expectations requires substantial design, engineering, and integration work on almost every system of our vehicles. Our roots in Silicon Valley have enabled us to recruit engineers with strong skills in electrical engineering, power electronics and software engineering. We have complemented this talent base with automotive engineers with substantial expertise in vehicle engineering and manufacturing. Our ability to combine expertise in electric powertrain and vehicle engineering provides a broad capability in electric vehicle design and systems integration. We believe these capabilities, coupled with our focus solely on electric vehicle technology as well as our strong inhouse engineering and manufacturing capacity, will enable us to sustain the electric vehicle industry leadership we created through the production of the Tesla Roadster. 

We sell and service our Tesla Roadster though our company-owned sales and service network in the North America, Europe and Asia. Our intent is to offer a compelling customer experience while gathering rapid customer feedback and achieving operating efficiencies, better control over the costs of inventory, warranty service, pricing, and the development of the Tesla brand. Our Tesla stores do not carry large vehicle inventories and, as a result, do not require corresponding large floor spaces. We believe the benefits we receive from distribution ownership, combined with our product design based on modularity and common platforms, will enable us to improve the speed of product development and improve the capital efficiency of our business. We believe that this approach provides us with a competitive advantage as compared to incumbent automobile manufacturers. 

&#160; 

Our first vehicle, the Tesla Roadster, can accelerate from zero to 60 miles per hour in 3.9 seconds and has a maximum speed of approximately 120 miles per hour. The Roadster Sport version can accelerate from zero to 60 miles per hour in 3.7 seconds. The Tesla Roadster has a range of 245 miles on a single charge, as determined using the United States Environmental Protection Agency&#146;s (EPA&#146;s), combined two-cycle city/highway test. The Tesla Roadster has a range that is almost double that of any other commercially released electric vehicle and reportedly set a new world distance record of 313 miles on a single charge for a production electric car in a rally across Australia as part of the 2009 Global Green Challenge. As of December 31, 2011, we had delivered approximately 2,150 Tesla Roadsters to customers in over 31 countries, almost all of which were sold in North America and Europe. We concluded the production run of the Tesla Roadster in January 2012. We are selling our remaining Tesla Roadsters primarily in Europe and Asia during 2012 until our inventory is depleted. To date, our customers have driven the Tesla Roadster for an estimated aggregate of almost 20 million miles. 

We announced our second electric vehicle, Model S, with the public exhibition of a drivable early prototype in March 2009. In October 2011 we invited over three thousand customers and other stakeholders to see and ride in the beta prototypes of Model S at our manufacturing facility in Fremont, California, the Tesla Factory. We have completed the construction of several drivable Model S alpha and beta prototypes, which are currently undergoing detailed testing. We currently plan to begin customer deliveries of Model S by July 2012. 

Model S is a four door, five-passenger premium sedan that offers exceptional performance, functionality and attractive styling. As a fully electric vehicle, Model S will produce zero tailpipe emissions while accelerating from zero to 60 miles per hour in a targeted time of as low as 4.4 seconds in its performance version. The base Model S will have an effective base price of $49,900 in the United States with the 40 kilowatt-hour (kWh) battery pack option, assuming and after giving effect to the continuation of a United States federal tax credit of $7,500 for the purchase of alternative fuel vehicles. Even without the tax credit, we believe the base list price will be competitive from a pricing perspective with other premium vehicles. We believe that Model S will demonstrate our ability to produce increasingly affordable electric vehicles that offer long-range capabilities and uncompromised performance, energy efficiency, convenience and design. 

We plan to offer Model S with a variety of battery pack options&#151;40 kWh, 60 kWh and 85 kWh&#151;which we estimate will offer a range on a single charge of 160 miles, 230 miles, and 300 miles, respectively, while traveling at a steady speed of 55 miles per hour. The EPA&#146;s new fuel economy requirements will require us to label Model S utilizing new and different energy efficiency testing methodologies. These methodologies differ from the one we have used to estimate the range of the vehicles at a steady speed of 55 miles per hour and could reduce the range reported on the required labeling of our vehicles by up to 30% as compared to our current estimates. 

We are designing Model S for a significantly broader customer base than the Tesla Roadster. Accordingly, we currently intend to target an annual production rate of approximately 20,000 cars per year beginning in 2013 from our Tesla Factory. We currently plan to commence deliveries by July 2012 and to deliver approximately 5,000 Model S sedans in 2012. As of December 31, 2011, we had received over 8,000 customer reservations with a minimum refundable payment of $5,000. 

We have nearly completed the Tesla Factory, our integrated electric vehicle manufacturing facility in Fremont, California for the manufacture of Model S and its components. In October 2010, we completed the purchase of this facility from New United Motor Manufacturing, Inc. (NUMMI). We intend to use the facility for the production of our Model S vehicle, Model X crossover, and to build our future electric vehicles. We have entered into a loan agreement with the United States Federal Financing Bank and United States Department of Energy (DOE Loan Facility), to arrange loans for up to $465.0 million, $363.9 million of which is intended for the continued development of Model S and the build out of the Tesla Factory. 

The electric powertrain we developed for the Tesla Roadster has provided the foundational technology for our Model S, our Model X crossover and our future vehicles, and for electric powertrain components and systems 

&#160; 

that we are selling to Daimler and its affiliates and that we intend to sell to Toyota. Our electric powertrain consists of the following components: our modular battery pack, our power electronics, gearbox, our motor and control and integration software which enables the components to operate as a system. We sell certain of these components to Daimler and intend to sell these systems to Toyota, and have secured $101.2 million of an aggregate $465.0 million from our DOE Loan Facility to fund the infrastructure for these powertrain activities. We believe that our efforts in our powertrain development will enable us to advance our technology and rapidly and cost effectively develop vehicles. 

Our battery pack and electric powertrain system has enabled us to deliver market-leading range capability on our vehicles at what we believe is a compelling battery cost per kilowatt-hour. The battery pack of the Tesla Roadster uses commercially available lithium-ion battery cells and contains 53 kilowatt-hours of usable energy, almost double the energy of any other commercially available electric vehicle battery pack, thereby significantly increasing its range capability. Designing an electric powertrain and a vehicle to exploit its energy efficiency has required extensive safety testing and innovation in battery packs, motors, powertrain systems and vehicle engineering. Our proprietary technology includes cooling systems, safety systems, charge balancing systems, battery engineering for vibration and environmental durability, customized motor design and the software and electronics management systems necessary to manage battery and vehicle performance under demanding real-life driving conditions. These technology innovations have resulted in an extensive intellectual property portfolio&#151;as of December 31, 2011, we had 59 issued patents and more than 230 pending patent applications with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and internationally in a broad range of areas. 

We are designing our vehicles to enable the cost effective development of our future vehicles. For example, we are designing a common platform architecture for Model S, which compactly positions the battery pack, motor and other elements of our powertrain within the frame of the vehicle. We believe this architecture will form the basis of several future vehicles, including our planned Model X crossover, and enable us to efficiently and cost effectively launch these new vehicle models in the future. 

Our design and vehicle engineering capabilities, combined with the technical advancements of our powertrain system, have enabled us to design and develop zero tailpipe emission vehicles that we believe overcome the design, styling, and performance issues that we believe have historically limited broad consumer adoption of electric vehicles. As a result, we believe our Tesla Roadster customers enjoy, and Model S customers will enjoy, several benefits, including: 

&#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; Long Range and Recharging Flexibility . The range of the Tesla Roadster is almost double the range of any other commercially available electric vehicle. We are designing Model S to offer an even greater range option. In addition, the Tesla Roadster incorporates our proprietary on-board charging system, permitting recharging from almost any available electrical outlet, and we are designing certain battery pack versions of Model S to offer fast charging capability from our planned SuperCharger network. We believe the long-range and charging flexibility of our vehicles will help reduce consumer anxiety over range, alleviate the need for expensive, large-scale charging infrastructure, and differentiate our vehicles as compared to our competitors&#146; currently announced electric vehicle product offerings. 

##TABLE_END &#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; Energy Efficiency and Cost of Ownership . We believe our Tesla Roadster offers and our Model S will offer consumers an attractive cost of ownership when compared to similar internal combustion engine or hybrid electric vehicles. Using only a single electric powertrain enables us to create a lighter, more energy efficient vehicle that is mechanically simpler than currently available hybrid or internal combustion engine vehicles. We also expect our electric vehicles will have lower relative maintenance costs than hybrid, plug-in hybrid, or internal combustion engine vehicles due to fewer moving parts and the absence of certain components, including oil, oil filters, spark plugs and engine valves. Additionally, government incentives that are currently available can reduce the cost of ownership even further. 

##TABLE_END &#160; 

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; High-Performance Without Compromised Design or Functionality . We believe we have been able to successfully overcome the design and performance tradeoff issues that encumbered most early electric vehicle designs. We believe the Tesla Roadster delivers an unparalleled driving experience with instantaneous and sustained acceleration through an extended range of speed. In addition, our Model S is being designed to seat five adults, provide best in class storage in the trunk and hood while offering design and performance comparable to, or better than, other premium sedans. 

##TABLE_END Our Vehicles and Products 

We currently design, manufacture and sell fully electric vehicles and electric powertrain components. 

The Tesla Roadster 

Our first vehicle, the Tesla Roadster, is the first high-performance electric sports car. The two-seat, convertible Tesla Roadster has a combination of range, style, performance and energy efficiency that we believe is unmatched in the market today. It can accelerate from zero to 60 miles per hour in 3.9 seconds and has a maximum speed of approximately 120 miles per hour. The Tesla Roadster also has a range of 245 miles on a single charge, as determined using the United States EPA&#146;s, combined two-cycle city/highway test. This range is almost double that of any other commercially released electric vehicle. 

As of December 31, 2011, we had delivered approximately 2,150 Tesla Roadsters to customers in over 31 countries, almost all of which were sold to customers in North America and Europe. The Tesla Roadster complies with, or is exempt from, all applicable vehicle safety standards in the United States, the European Union as well as select other countries. To date, our customers have driven the Tesla Roadster for an estimated aggregate of almost 20 million miles. We concluded the production run of the Tesla Roadster in January 2012. We are selling our remaining Tesla Roadsters primarily in Europe and Asia during 2012 until our inventory is depleted. 

The cumulative capital expenditures and research and development costs for the Tesla Roadster from our inception to the date we delivered our first Tesla Roadster was approximately $125 million. 

We have continued to rapidly develop the Tesla Roadster since its introduction. In June 2009, nine months after its commercial introduction, we launched the Tesla Roadster 2, as well as a high-performance variant, the Tesla Roadster Sport. We delivered our first right-hand drive model of the Tesla Roadster in January 2010 and have since delivered right-hand drive Roadsters into key markets such as the United Kingdom, Japan, Hong Kong, and Australia. In July 2010, we released the Roadster 2.5, an upgraded version of Roadster 2. 

Model S 

Our second vehicle, Model S, is currently expected to begin customer deliveries by July of 2012 and we currently plan to deliver approximately 5,000 Model S sedans in 2012. We are leveraging technologies within the electric powertrain of the Tesla Roadster to create a four-door, five-adult-passenger sedan that produces zero tailpipe emissions while accelerating from zero to 60 miles per hour in a targeted time of as low as 4.4 seconds in its performance version. Model S acceleration from zero to 60 miles per hour is targeted at 6.5 seconds, 5.9 seconds and 5.6 seconds for the 40 kWh, 60 kWh and 85 kWh battery pack options, respectively. We have designed Model S to include a third row with two rear-facing child seats, subject to applicable safety regulations and requirements, allowing us to offer a seven passenger sedan. The drivable early prototype of Model S was exhibited to the public in March 2009 and as of December 31, 2011, we had received over 8,000 customer reservations with a minimum refundable payment of $5,000. 

We plan to offer Model S with a variety of battery pack options&#151;40 kWh, 60 kWh and 85 kWh&#151;which we estimate will offer a range on a single charge of 160 miles, 230 miles, and 300 miles, respectively, while traveling at a steady speed of 55 miles per hour. We expect that these options will allow customers to purchase an electric vehicle that best matches their personal driving needs. The EPA&#146;s new fuel economy requirements 

&#160; 

will require us to label Model S utilizing new and different energy efficiency testing methodologies. These methodologies differ from the one we have used to estimate the range of the vehicles at a steady speed of 55 miles per hour and could reduce the range reported on the required labeling of our vehicles by up to 30% as compared to our current estimates. 

To complement its range capabilities, we also are offering Model S with a package of recharging options. We are offering the capability to fast charge Model S vehicles equipped with either the 60 kWh or 85 kWh battery packs at one of Tesla&#146;s SuperCharger facilities, which we plan to start installing at selected locations in the United States in 2012. We anticipate that the fast charge capability will allow Model S owners to replenish 50% of the battery pack in about 30 minutes. This feature would offer these drivers a rapid and convenient way to recharge their vehicles. In addition, we are designing Model S to incorporate a modular battery pack in the floor of the vehicle, enabling it to be rapidly swapped out at a specialized commercial battery exchange facility that we anticipate may be available in the future. 

We are designing Model S to offer a compelling combination of functionality, convenience and styling without compromising performance and energy efficiency. With the battery pack in the floor of the vehicle and the motor and gearbox in line with the rear axle, we have designed Model S to provide best in class storage space of 36.8 cubic feet, including storage under both the tailgate and the hood. By way of comparison, this storage space exceeds the approximately 14 cubic feet of storage available in the 2009 BMW 5 Series sedan and the approximately 21 cubic feet of storage available in the 2009 Lincoln Town Car. We are also planning to equip Model S with premium luxury features, including a 17 inch touch screen driver interface, advanced wireless connectivity, such as 3G connectivity, and driver customization of the infotainment and climate control systems of the vehicle. We are designing Model S with the intent to achieve a five star safety rating. We believe the intended combination of performance, styling, convenience and energy efficiency of Model S will help position it as a compelling alternative to other vehicles in the luxury and performance segments. 

We have announced that the 45 kWh, 60 kWh and 85 kWh battery pack options of Model S will have an effective base price of $49,900, $59,900, and $69,900, respectively, in the United States, assuming and after giving effect to the continuation of a United States federal tax credit of $7,500 for the purchase of alternative fuel vehicles. Even without the tax credit, we believe the base list price will be competitive with other premium vehicles. We have also announced a performance version of Model S. Equipped with the 85 kWh battery pack and a high performance drive inverter, we anticipate that the Model S performance version will accelerate from zero to 60 miles per hour in 4.4 seconds. The effective base price of the Model S performance version is $84,900. 

We anticipate that the initial units of Model S will be introduced with a Signature Series which will have an 85 kWh battery pack and include certain colors and interior options, some of which may not be available in the general production of Model S. We also offer the Signature Series with a performance version. The effective base price of the Signature Series is $87,900 and the effective base price of the Signature Series performance version is $97,900. 

We are designing Model S to provide a lower cost of ownership as compared to other vehicles in its class. We consider the purchase price, cost of fuel and the cost of maintenance over a six year ownership period in this calculation. We assume comparable residual values, warranties, insurance costs and promotions and assume that currently available consumer incentives are still available at the time of a Model S purchase. In addition to the competitive pricing of Model S relative to other premium vehicles, we estimate that customers of electric vehicles will enjoy lower fuel costs. For example, assuming an average of 12,000 miles driven per year, an average electricity cost of 11.0 cents per kilowatt-hour and an average gasoline price of $3.38 per gallon over the full ownership of the vehicle which were the average electricity cost and gasoline price in the United States, respectively, for January 2012, and based on our estimate of the energy efficiency of Model S, we estimate that our Model S could have approximately $1,900 per year less in fuel costs than a comparable premium internal combustion engine sedan. Furthermore, we expect Model S will have lower maintenance costs than comparable premium internal combustion engine sedans due to fewer moving parts and the absence of certain components, including oil, oil filters, spark plugs and engine valves. 

&#160; 

Model X and Future Vehicle Roadmap 

We expect that Model S will be manufactured with an adaptable platform architecture and common electric powertrain so that we can use the platform of Model S to create future electric vehicle models. In particular, by designing our electric powertrain within the chassis to accommodate different vehicle body styles, we believe that we can save significant time in future vehicle development. In addition, we believe our strategy of using commercially available battery cells will enable us to leverage improvements in cell chemistries and rapidly introduce planned vehicles with different range options. However, we may make changes to the design of Model S, including changes that may make it more difficult to use the Model S platform for future vehicles. 

In February 2012, we revealed an early prototype of the Model X crossover as the first vehicle we intend to develop by leveraging the Model S platform. This unique vehicle has been designed to fill the niche between the roominess of a minivan and the style of an SUV, while having high performance features such as a dual motor all-wheel drive system. We currently plan to start production of Model X in the fourth quarter of 2013 and ramp up to significant customer deliveries in early 2014. We anticipate that we will make Model X available with 60kWh and 85 kWh battery pack options, with pricing of each version similar to those of a comparably equipped Model S. We currently intend to target an annual production rate of approximately 10,000 -15,000 cars per year from our Tesla Factory. 

We have also publicly announced our intent to develop a third generation electric vehicle to be produced at the Tesla Factory. We intend to offer this vehicle at a lower price point and expect to produce it at higher volumes than our Model S. We expect that this vehicle will be produced a few years after the introduction of the Model X crossover. 

Powertrain Development and Sales 

In addition to our own vehicles, we also design, develop, manufacture and sell advanced electric vehicle powertrain components. 

In May 2009, we entered into a development agreement with Daimler under which we performed specified research and development services for the development of a battery pack and charger for Daimler&#146;s Smart fortwo electric drive. All development work related to the development agreement had been completed as of December 31, 2009. Through December 2011, we had sold over 2,100 battery packs and chargers for the Smart fortwo electric drive program. 

In the first quarter of 2010, Daimler engaged us to assist with the development and production of a battery pack and charger for a pilot fleet of its A-Class electric vehicles to be introduced in Europe during 2011. A formal agreement for this arrangement was entered into with Daimler in May 2010. In October 2010, we completed the development of the A-Class battery pack and charger and began shipping production components for a demonstration fleet in February 2011. Through December 2011, we had sold over 500 battery packs and chargers for the A-Class EV program. 

In the first quarter of 2010, we completed the development and sale of modular battery packs for electric delivery vans for Freightliner Custom Chassis Corporation (Freightliner), an affiliate of Daimler. Freightliner plans to use these electric vans in a limited number of customer trials. 

In May 2010, we and Toyota announced our intention to cooperate on the development of electric vehicles, and for us to receive Toyota&#146;s support with sourcing parts and production and engineering expertise for Model S. In July 2010, we entered into an early phase agreement to develop an electric powertrain for the Toyota RAV4. With an aim by Toyota to market the electric vehicle in the United States in 2012, prototypes would be made by combining the Toyota RAV4 model with a Tesla electric powertrain. We began developing and delivering prototypes to Toyota for evaluation in September 2010. In October 2010, we entered into a contract services 

&#160; 

agreement with Toyota for the development of a validated powertrain system, including a battery, power electronics module, motor, gearbox and associated software, which will be integrated into an electric vehicle version of the Toyota RAV4. Pursuant to our agreements, Toyota would pay us up to $69 million for the anticipated development services to be provided by us over the expected term of our performance. We expect to complete all of the development services for the RAV4 EV in the first quarter of 2012. 

Additionally, in July 2011, we entered into an agreement to supply Toyota with an electric powertrain system for the RAV4 EV. We plan to begin delivery of these systems to Toyota for installation into the Toyota RAV4 EV in the first half of 2012. Our production activities under this program are expected to continue through 2014 

In February 2012, we received an initial purchase order for the development of a full electric powertrain system for an additional Mercedes vehicle from Daimler. We are negotiating the agreement for production parts for this project; however, no agreement has yet been executed and there are no assurances that we will be able to enter into any such agreement. 

We are continuing to develop our electric powertrain component and systems activities and have secured a $101.2 million loan under our DOE Loan Facility for the expansion of our engineering and production capability for these activities in our Palo Alto facility. This facility, which also serves as our corporate headquarters, houses our research and development services, including cell and component testing and prototyping, as well as manufacturing of powertrain components for sales to third parties. 

Technology 

We believe the core competencies of our company are powertrain and vehicle engineering. Our core intellectual property is contained within our electric powertrain. Our electric powertrain consists of the following: battery pack, power electronics, motor, gearbox and the control software which enables the components to operate as a system. We designed each of these major elements for our Tesla Roadster and plan to use much of this technology in Model S, Model X, our future electric vehicles and powertrain components that we build for other manufacturers. Our powertrain and battery pack have a modular design, enabling future generations of electric vehicles to incorporate a significant amount of this technology. Further, our powertrain is very compact and contains far fewer moving parts than the internal combustion powertrain. These features enable us to adapt it for a variety of applications, including our future vehicles and any powertrain components we build for other manufacturers. 

Battery Pack 

We design our battery packs to safely store significant amounts of energy and to have long lives. For example, we have designed our Tesla Roadster battery packs to store 53 kilowatt hours of useful energy and to have a life of over 100,000 miles or seven years. In addition, we have designed our battery packs to be modular so that we can leverage technology developments across our different vehicles and products. Our proprietary technology includes cooling systems, safety systems, charge balancing systems, battery engineering for vibration and environmental durability, robotic manufacturing processes, customized motor design and the software and electronics management systems necessary to manage battery and vehicle performance under demanding real-life driving conditions. We have significant experience and expertise in the safety and management systems needed to work with lithium-ion cells in the demanding automotive environment. We believe these advancements have enabled us to produce a battery pack at a low cost per kilowatt-hour. 

We believe one of our core competencies is the design of our complete battery pack system. We have designed our battery pack system to permit flexibility with respect to battery cell chemistry, form factor and vendor that we adopt for battery cell supply. In so doing, we believe that we can leverage the substantial battery cell investments and advancements being made globally by battery cell manufacturers to continue to improve the 

&#160; 

cost per kilowatt-hour of our battery pack. We maintain an internal battery cell testing lab and an extensive performance database of the many available lithium-ion cell vendors and chemistry types. We intend to incorporate the battery cells that provide the best value and performance possible into our battery packs, and we expect this to continue over time as battery cells continue to improve in energy storage capacity, longevity, power delivery and cost. We believe this flexibility will enable us to continue to evaluate new battery cells as they become commercially viable, and thereby optimize battery pack system performance and cost for our current and future vehicles. We believe our ability to change battery cell chemistries and vendors while retaining our existing investments in software, electronics, testing and vehicle packaging, will enable us to quickly deploy various battery cells into our products and leverage the latest advancements in battery cell technology. 

The range of our electric vehicles on a single charge declines principally as a function of usage, time and charging patterns. A customer&#146;s use of their Tesla vehicle as well as the frequency with which they charge the battery of their Tesla vehicle can result in additional deterioration of the battery&#146;s ability to hold a charge. For example, we currently expect that the Tesla Roadster battery pack will retain approximately 60-65% of its ability to hold its initial charge after approximately 100,000 miles or seven years, which will result in a decrease to the vehicle&#146;s initial range. In addition, based on internal testing, we estimate that our Tesla Roadster would have a 5-10% reduction in range when operated in -20&#176;C temperatures. 

To date, we have tested hundreds of battery cells of different chemistries, form factors and designs. Based on this evaluation, we are presently using lithium-ion battery cells based on the 18650 form factor in all of our battery packs. These battery cells are commercially available in large quantities. We currently intend to use the same battery cell form factor in Model S and Model X. We recently entered into a supply agreement with Panasonic Corporation (Panasonic) for the use of Panasonic&#146;s battery cells in Model S. We expect these battery cells to exhibit better performance and longer lifetimes than the battery cells used in the Tesla Roadster. 

Power Electronics 

The power electronics in our electric powertrain govern the flow of electrical current throughout the car, primarily the current that flows into and out of the battery pack. The power electronics has two primary functions, the control of torque generation in the motor while driving and the control of energy delivery back into the battery pack while charging. 

The first function is accomplished through the drive inverter, which converts direct current (DC) from the battery pack into alternating current (AC) to drive our three-phase induction motors. The drive inverter also converts the AC generated by regenerative braking back into DC for electrical storage in the battery pack. The drive inverter performs this function by using a high-performance digital signal processor which runs some of the most complicated and detailed software in the vehicle. In so doing, the drive inverter is directly responsible for the performance, high efficiency and overall driving experience of the vehicle. 

The second function, charging the battery pack, is accomplished by the charger, which converts alternating current (usually from a wall outlet or other electricity source) into direct current which can be accepted by the battery. The charger enables us to use any available source of power to charge our vehicle. Our vehicles can recharge on any electrical outlet from a common outlet of 15 amps and 120 volts all the way up to a high power outlet of 70 amps and 240 volts, which provides faster recharging. 

Since the charger system is built into our vehicles, it is possible to charge our vehicles using a variety of power outlets. For example, charging the Tesla Roadster battery pack to full capacity will take approximately 7 hours using a 240 volt, 40 amp outlet that is widely available in many homes in the United States for electric appliances. A high power connection capable of 240 volts and 70 amps reduces this charging time to about 4.5 hours. Such a connection can be installed in many homes with the assistance of a qualified electrician. For additional flexibility, the Tesla Roadster battery pack can also be charged with a 120 volt, 15 amp connection. 

&#160; 

Using this lower power output, the Tesla Roadster battery pack can be charged to full capacity in about 42 hours. This flexibility in charging provides customers with additional mobility, while also allowing them to conveniently charge the vehicle overnight at home. 

We offer a high-voltage fast charge option for Model S with the 60 kWh and 85 kWh battery pack options that will enable the vehicle to charge from Tesla&#146;s SuperCharger network that we anticipate may be available in the future. 

Motor 

Our powertrains currently use custom designed 3-phase induction motors. We believe we have made several important innovations in our motor design that minimize mass while still providing high power and efficiency. Our motors incorporate a proprietary fabricated copper rotor design. Our motors also include optimized winding patterns that allow for easy manufacture and fit in as much copper as possible to reduce resistance and energy losses. 

Gearbox 

We have designed custom, single speed gearboxes that are manufactured in-house for the Tesla Roadster and Model S. These gearboxes combine low mass with high efficiency and can match both the speed and torque capabilities of our AC induction motors. In comparison to a gasoline-powered vehicle, the elimination of gear changes contributes to the rapid acceleration characteristics of our vehicles. 

Control Software 

The performance and safety systems of our vehicles and their battery packs require sophisticated control software. There are numerous processors in our vehicles to control these functions, and we write custom firmware for many of these processors. The flow of electricity between the battery pack and the motor must be tightly controlled in order to deliver the performance and behavior expected in the vehicle. For example, software algorithms enable the vehicle to mimic the &#147;creep&#148; feeling which drivers expect from an internal combustion engine vehicle without having to apply pressure on the accelerator. Similar algorithms control traction, vehicle stability and the sustained acceleration and regenerative braking of the vehicle. Drivers use the information systems in our vehicles to optimize performance and charging modes and times. Software also is used extensively to monitor the charge state of each of the cells of the battery pack and to manage all of its safety systems. In addition to the vehicle control software, we are also developing software for the infotainment system of Model S. 

Vehicle Design and Engineering 

In addition to the design, development and production of the powertrain, we have created significant in-house capabilities in the design and engineering of electric vehicles and electric vehicle components and systems. We design and engineer bodies, chassis, interiors, heating and cooling and low voltage electrical systems in house and to a lesser extent in conjunction with our suppliers. Our team has core competencies in computer aided design and crash test simulations which we expect to reduce the product development time of new models. 

Several traditional automotive subsystems required substantial redesign and custom optimization to integrate with the powertrain of an electric vehicle. For example, we redesigned the heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) system to integrate with the battery thermal management system and to operate without the energy generated from an internal combustion engine. In addition, low voltage electric systems which power features such as the radio, power windows, and heated seats also needed to be designed specifically for use in an electric vehicle. We have developed expertise in integrating these components with the high-voltage power source in the vehicle and in designing components that significantly reduce their load on the vehicle battery pack, thereby maximizing the available range of the vehicle. 

&#160; 

Additionally, our team has expertise in lightweight materials, a very important characteristic for electric vehicles given the impact of mass on range. The Tesla Roadster is built with an internally-designed carbon fiber body which provides a balance of strength and mass. We intend to build Model S with a lightweight aluminum body and have been designing the body and chassis with a variety of materials and production methods that will help optimize the weight of the vehicle. We are developing an integrated electric vehicle manufacturing facility in Fremont, California, the Tesla Factory, to assemble vehicles and manufacture components that are critical to our intellectual property and quality of Model S. Our engineering and manufacturing teams are working alongside one another in an effort to accelerate the Model S development. We believe the co-location of our engineering and manufacturing teams will help accelerate the development of new products and allow for faster introduction of product changes. 

Sales and Marketing 

Company-Owned Sales 

We market and sell cars directly to consumers. Until we opened our first store in Los Angeles, California in May 2008, all of our sales of the Tesla Roadster were conducted via the phone and internet, or in-person at our headquarters and corporate events. Increasingly, sales are being made through our network of Tesla stores. Our Tesla stores are highly visible, premium outlets in major metropolitan markets some of which combine retail sales and service. We intend to build separate sales and service locations in several markets. In April 2011, we opened our store at Santana Row in San Jose, California. The opening of our Santana Row store launched what we believe to be a new retail experience designed to engage and inform potential customers about electric vehicles in general and the advantages of the Tesla experience in particular. We have opened five other locations modeled on this concept to complement a network of 20 sales and service locations in North America, Europe and Asia. We plan to open additional stores and service centers during 2012, with a goal of establishing approximately 50 stores and additional service centers globally within the next several years in connection with our Model S rollout. 

We believe that by owning our own sales and service network we can offer a compelling customer experience while achieving operating efficiencies and capturing sales and service revenues incumbent automobile manufacturers do not enjoy in the traditional franchised distribution and service model. Our customers deal directly with our own Tesla-employed sales and service staff, creating what we believe is a differentiated buying experience from the buying experience consumers have with franchised automobile dealers and service centers. We believe we will also be able to better control costs of inventory, manage warranty service and pricing, maintain and strengthen the Tesla brand, and obtain rapid customer feedback. Further, we believe that by owning our sales network we will avoid the conflict of interest in the traditional dealership structure inherent to most incumbent automobile manufacturers where the sale of warranty parts and repairs by a dealer are a key source of revenue and profit for the dealer but often are an expense for the vehicle manufacturer. 

Reservations 

We typically carry very limited inventory of our vehicles at our Tesla stores. While some customers purchase their vehicles from this inventory, most of our Tesla Roadster customers choose to customize the appearance of their vehicle. Potential customers who purchase Tesla Roadsters manufactured to specification are required to enter into a purchase agreement and pay a nonrefundable deposit, which is applied towards the purchase price of the vehicle. For vehicles purchased directly from our showrooms, no deposit is required. For our 2011 model year Tesla Roadsters manufactured to specification, our current purchase agreement requires the payment of an initial deposit, which varies based on the country of purchase. For Model S and Model X, we require an initial refundable reservation payment of at least $5,000. We require nonrefundable deposits for Tesla Roadsters manufactured to specification. We also occasionally accept refundable reservation payments if a customer is interested in purchasing a vehicle but not yet prepared to select the vehicle specifications. We currently require full payment of the purchase price of the vehicle only upon delivery of the vehicle to the 

&#160; 

customer. Reservation payments and deposits are used by us to fund, in part, our working capital requirements and help us to align production with demand. For customers who have placed a refundable reservation payment with us, the reservation payment becomes a nonrefundable deposit once the customer has selected the vehicle specifications and enters into a purchase agreement. 

As of December 31, 2011, we had received over 8,000 customer reservations for Model S. As of December 31, 2011, we held reservation payments for Model S sedans in an aggregate of $90.0 million and reservation payments for undelivered Tesla Roadsters in an aggregate of $1.8 million. All reservation payments for Model S are fully refundable until such time that a customer enters into a purchase agreement. 

Leasing 

We began offering a leasing alternative to customers of our Tesla Roadster in the United States and Canada in 2010 through wholly owned subsidiaries. Under this program, we have permitted qualifying customers in the United States to lease the Tesla Roadster for generally 36 months, after which time they have the option of either returning the vehicle to us or purchasing it for a predetermined residual value. We are using a third party provider to administer the back office services, including billing and collections, of the leases. 

Marketing 

Our principal marketing goals are to: 

&#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; generate demand for our vehicles and drive leads to our sales teams; 

##TABLE_END &#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; build long-term brand awareness and manage corporate reputation; 

##TABLE_END &#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; manage our existing customer base to create loyalty and customer referrals; and 

##TABLE_END &#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; enable customer input into the product development process. 

##TABLE_END As the first company to commercially produce a federally-compliant, fully electric vehicle that achieves market-leading range on a single charge, we have been able to generate significant media coverage of our company and our vehicles, and we believe we will continue to do so. To date, media coverage and word of mouth have been the primary drivers of our sales leads and have helped us achieve sales without traditional advertising and at relatively low marketing costs. We also use traditional means of advertising including product placement in a variety of media outlets and pay-per-click advertisements on websites and applications relevant to our target demographics. 

Our marketing efforts include events where our vehicles are displayed and demonstrated. These events range from widely attended public events, such as the Detroit, Los Angeles, and Frankfurt auto shows, to smaller events oriented towards sales, such as private drive events. 

Company-Owned Charging Network, Service and Warranty 

Tesla SuperCharger Network 

During 2012, we plan to introduce a network of 90 kWh fast charging equipment, each called a Tesla SuperCharger, throughout North America for fast charging of Model S. The Tesla SuperCharger is an industrial grade, high speed charger designed to replenish 50% of the battery pack in about 30 minutes. Access to the SuperCharger network will be available to owners of Model S vehicles with the 60 kWh and 85 kWh battery pack options. 

Service 

Service of our electric vehicles takes place at most of our Tesla stores. Going forward, we intend to build separate sales and service locations in several markets. Within countries that are covered by our warranty agreement, we offer at home service through our mobile service technicians known as the Tesla Rangers. We 

&#160; 

charge customers a fixed rate per mile for our Tesla Rangers technicians&#146; return trip from the location of the customer&#146;s vehicle to the nearest Tesla store. For customers that are not covered by our warranty agreement, we offer at home service at a higher cost. 

Tesla owners can upload data from their vehicle and send it to us on a memory card or via an on-board GSM system, allowing us to diagnose and remedy many problems before ever looking at the vehicle. When maintenance or service is required, a customer can schedule service by contacting one of our regional Tesla stores. Our Tesla Rangers can perform an array of procedures at a remote location, from annual inspections and firmware upgrades to full replacement of a power electronics module and other mechanical and electrical components. If service is more extensive and requires a vehicle lift, we can coordinate shipping of vehicles to and from the nearest Tesla store. 

We believe that our company-owned service enables our technicians to work closely with our engineers and research and development teams in Silicon Valley to identify problems, find solutions, and incorporate improvements faster than incumbent automobile manufacturers. 

New Vehicle Limited Warranty Policy 

We provide a three year or 36,000 miles New Vehicle Limited Warranty with every Tesla Roadster, which we extended to four years or 50,000 miles for the purchasers of our 2008 Tesla Roadster. Customers have the opportunity to purchase an Extended Service Plan for the period after the end of the New Vehicle Limited Warranty to cover additional services for an additional three years or 36,000 miles, whichever comes first. The New Vehicle Limited Warranty is similar to other vehicle manufacturer&#146;s warranty programs and is intended to cover all parts and labor to repair defects in material or workmanship in the body, chassis, suspension, interior, electronic systems, battery, powertrain and brake system. Exceptions to the New Vehicle Limited Warranty include wear items such as tires, brake pads and rotors, paint wear and tear, interior wear and tear and battery performance. We intend to announce our new vehicle limited warranty for Model S in 2012. 

Battery Replacement Option 

While battery failure due to defects in material or workmanship is included in the Tesla Roadster New Vehicle Limited Warranty, battery performance, specifically its ability to store electricity over time, is not covered in either the New Vehicle Limited Warranty or the Extended Service Plan. However, within three months of purchasing a vehicle, customers may purchase a one-time option to replace the battery pack at any time after the expiration of the New Vehicle Limited Warranty but before the tenth anniversary of the purchase date of the vehicle. For customers that select this option, we agree to replace the original battery pack of the vehicle with a replacement battery pack which will store at least 53 kilowatt-hours of usable energy. Charges in addition to the option purchase price apply if the customer exercises the battery pack replacement option prior to the seventh anniversary of the purchase date of the vehicle. The customer is entitled to a partial refund of the option purchase price if the option is not elected by the eighth anniversary of the purchase date of the vehicle. 

Manufacturing 

Vehicle Assembly 

We completed the production of Tesla Roadster gliders at Lotus Cars Limited in January 2012. We have a limited inventory of Roadsters for sale primarily in Europe and Asia in 2012. As of December 31, 2011, we had delivered approximately 2,150 Roadsters to customers. 

We have nearly completed the Tesla Factory, an integrated electric vehicle manufacturing facility in Fremont, California to manufacture components that are critical to our intellectual property and quality of Model S, including stamping, plastics, body assembly, paint operations, battery pack manufacturing, final vehicle assembly and end-of-line testing. Certain major component systems will be purchased from suppliers. We 

&#160; 

currently intend to target an annual production rate at this facility for Model S of approximately 20,000 cars per year. We believe that we will be able to increase the annual production capacity of this plant beyond this amount through additional capital spending as well as by changing operating patterns and adding additional shifts. 

Powertrain Component Manufacturing 

In addition to developing our Model S and future vehicle manufacturing capabilities at the Tesla Factory, we are currently designing, developing and manufacturing lithium-ion battery packs, electric motors, gearboxes and components both for our vehicles and for our original equipment manufacturer customers. These activities occur at our electric powertrain manufacturing facility in Palo Alto, California and at the Tesla Factory. 

Supply Chain 

Model S uses over 2,000 purchased parts which we source globally from over 200 suppliers, many of whom are currently our single source suppliers for these components. We have developed close relationships with several key suppliers particularly in the procurement of cells and certain electric powertrain components. While we obtain components from multiple sources whenever possible, similar to other automobile manufacturers, many of the components used in our vehicles are purchased by us from a single source. 

To date, we have not qualified alternative sources for most of the single sourced components used in our vehicles and we generally do not maintain long-term agreements with our suppliers. While we believe that we may be able to establish alternate supply relationships and can obtain or engineer replacement components for our single source components, we may be unable to do so in the short term or at all at prices or costs that are favorable to us. For example, while several sources of the battery cell we have selected for our battery packs are available, we have fully qualified only one supplier for these cells. Any disruption in the supply of battery cells from such vendor could temporarily disrupt production of the vehicles until such time as a different supplier is fully qualified and there can be no assurance that we would be able to successfully retain alternative suppliers on a timely basis. Moreover, battery cell manufactures may not supply us at reasonable prices or on reasonable terms or may choose to refuse to supply electric vehicle manufacturers to the extent they determine that the vehicles are not sufficiently safe. 

We use various raw materials in our business including aluminum, steel, nickel and copper. The prices for these raw materials fluctuate depending on market conditions and global demand for these materials. We believe that we have adequate supplies or sources of availability of the raw materials necessary to meet our manufacturing and supply requirements. There are always risks and uncertainties, however, with respect to the supply of raw materials that could impact their availability in sufficient quantities or reasonable prices to meet our needs. 

Quality Control 

Our quality control efforts are divided between product quality and supplier quality, both of which are focused on designing and producing products and processes with high levels of reliability. Our product quality engineers work with our engineering team and our suppliers to help ensure that the product designs meet functional specifications and durability requirements. Our supplier quality engineers work with our suppliers to ensure that their processes and systems are capable of delivering the parts we need at the required quality level, on time, and on budget. Our quality systems engineers create and manage our systems, such as configuration management and corrective action systems, to help ensure product developers, supplier chain managers, and production controllers have the product information they need. 

Customers and Selected Relationships 

We currently sell our cars primarily to individual customers. We have strategic or commercial relationships with Daimler, Toyota, and Panasonic. We intend to expand our business by developing and selling additional powertrain components and systems to Daimler, Toyota and other third party OEMs, and have secured a $101.2 million loan under our DOE Loan Facility to fund the infrastructure these activities. 

&#160; 

Daimler AG 

Beginning in 2008, we commenced efforts on a powertrain development arrangement with Daimler. In May 2009, we entered into a development agreement with Daimler under which we have performed specified research and development services for the development of a battery pack and charger for Daimler&#146;s Smart fortwo electric drive. All development work related to the development agreement had been completed as of December 31, 2009. Through December 2011, we had sold over 2,100 battery packs and chargers for the Smart fortwo electric drive program. In the first quarter of 2010, Daimler engaged us to assist with the development and production of a battery pack and charger for a pilot fleet of its A-Class electric vehicles to be introduced in Europe during 2011. A formal agreement for this arrangement was entered into with Daimler in May 2010. In October 2010, we completed the development of the A-Class battery pack and charger and began shipping production parts in February 2011. Through December 2011, we sold over 500 battery packs and chargers for the A-Class EV program. In the first quarter of 2010, we completed the development and sale of modular battery packs for electric delivery vans for Freightliner, an affiliate of Daimler. Freightliner plans to use these electric vans in a limited number of customer trials. 

In February 2012, we received an initial purchase order for the development of a full electric powertrain system for an additional Mercedes Benz vehicle from Daimler. We are negotiating the agreement for production parts for this project; however, no agreement has yet been executed and there are no assurances that we will be able to enter into any such agreement. 

In addition to the agreements described above, we have entered into an exclusivity and intellectual property agreement (EIP Agreement) with Daimler North America Corporation (DNAC), an affiliate of Daimler, in which we agreed to begin negotiating in good faith to enter into further agreements within certain strategic cooperation areas, including technology collaboration in various electric powertrain areas, automotive engineering support, joint electric vehicle development efforts and access to component parts for Tesla designed products. Under this EIP Agreement, we agreed that, until November 11, 2009, we would not negotiate or enter into any agreements with other parties that would be competitive with the arrangements contemplated for these strategic cooperation areas, unless the results of such arrangement would be marketed solely under the Tesla brand. As of that date, we had not executed any further agreements with Daimler in the areas of strategic cooperation. 

The EIP Agreement provides that ending July 2013, if the company receives an offer from a strategic competitor of Daimler to enter into an agreement for development of a non-Tesla branded vehicle or an integrated electric powertrain system, DNAC would be given the right of first refusal to enter into such agreement with the company instead of, and on the same terms offered by, the third party. 

The EIP Agreement also provides that if we execute a strategic cooperation agreement with DNAC to jointly engineer an electric vehicle, then additional exclusivities would apply until July 2013, provided a minimum annual volume of sales is achieved. The EIP Agreement provides that none of the restrictions set out in that agreement, or in any strategic agreement, would limit us from developing technology with any third party for use in a Tesla-branded product or service or related to the Tesla Roadster or Model S, engaging in any transaction with a company that is not a Daimler competitor, or supplying components for electric powertrains that are designed by third parties. 

The EIP Agreement also provides that if the parties enter into the strategic agreements or further agreements, those agreements will allocate intellectual property rights according to certain principles outlined in the EIP Agreement. In addition, until July 2013, before licensing intellectual property generated outside the scope of any strategic cooperation area to a Daimler competitor, we would first have to offer DNAC the right to license the intellectual property on a non-exclusive, royalty-bearing basis, or on an exclusive basis in the automotive field; and if DNAC requests the latter, we must negotiate such a license in good faith. If no agreement is reached, however, we would be free to license the technology to the Daimler competitor, and DNAC could take a non-exclusive license. Both we and Daimler have the right to terminate the EIP Agreement 

&#160; 

in the event the other party undergoes, or executes an agreement to undergo, a change of control. Any strategic cooperation agreements entered into between us and Daimler prior to termination will not be affected by such termination. 

To date, with the exception of the development agreement for the Smart fortwo electric drive and the agreement for the development and production of a battery pack and charger for a pilot fleet of Daimler&#146;s A-Class electric vehicles, the strategic agreements described in the EIP Agreement have not been entered into, and there can be no assurance that the parties will ever enter into such agreements. Even if we were to enter into such agreements, the parties may negotiate and agree to terms that are different to those set forth in the EIP Agreement and outlined above. Such different or new terms may be more or less favorable to us. 

In addition to these agreements, Blackstar lnvestco LLC (Blackstar), an affiliate of Daimler, beneficially owned 8,113,215 shares of our common stock as of December 31, 2011. Blackstar&#146;s representative, Dr. Herbert Kohler, serves as a member of our Board of Directors. 

Toyota Motor Corporation 

In May 2010, we and Toyota announced our intention to cooperate on the development of electric vehicles, and for us to receive Toyota&#146;s support with sourcing parts and production and engineering expertise for Model S. In July 2010, we entered into an early phase agreement to develop an electric powertrain for the Toyota RAV4. With an aim by Toyota to market the electric vehicle in the United States in 2012, prototypes would be made by combining the Toyota RAV4 model with a Tesla electric powertrain. We began developing and delivering prototypes to Toyota for evaluation in September 2010. 

In October 2010, we entered into a contract services agreement with Toyota for the development of a validated powertrain system, including a battery, power electronics module, motor, gearbox and associated software, which will be integrated into an electric vehicle version of the Toyota RAV4. Pursuant to our agreements, Toyota will pay us up to $69 million for the anticipated development services to be provided by us over the expected term of our performance. We expect to complete all of the development services for the RAV4 EV in the first quarter of 2012. 

Additionally, in July 2011, we entered into an agreement to supply Toyota with electric powertrain system for the RAV4 EV. We plan to begin delivery of these systems to Toyota for installation into the Toyota RAV4 EV in the first half of 2012. Our production activities under this program are expected to continue through 2014. 

In addition to these agreements, in July 2010, we sold 2,941,176 shares of our common stock to Toyota at our IPO price of $17.00 per share. 

Panasonic 

Panasonic is a supplier of battery cells for our battery packs. In January 2010, we announced that we were collaborating with Panasonic on the development of next-generation electric vehicle cells based on the 18650 form factor and nickel-based lithium ion chemistry. In October 2011, we finalized a supply agreement for these battery cells. The agreement supplies us with battery cells to build more than 80,000 vehicles over the next four years. 

In November 2010, we sold 1,418,573 shares of our common stock to an entity affiliated with Panasonic Corporation at a price of $21.15 per share, which was the average of the trading highs and lows of our common stock from October 25 to October 29, 2010. 

&#160; 

Governmental Programs, Incentives and Regulations 

United States Department of Energy Loans 

On January 20, 2010, we entered into a loan facility with the Federal Financing Bank (FFB) and the United States Department of Energy (DOE), under the DOE&#146;s Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan Program, as set forth in Section 136 of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (ATVM Program). We refer to such loan facility, including amendments thereto, as the DOE Loan Facility. Under the DOE Loan Facility, FFB has made available to us two multi-draw term loan facilities in an aggregate principal amount of up to $465.0 million and the DOE has agreed to reimburse FFB for any liabilities, losses, costs or expenses incurred by FFB with respect to the term loan facilities. Up to an aggregate principal amount of $101.2 million will be made available under the first term loan facility to finance up to 80% of the costs eligible for funding under the ATVM Program for the powertrain engineering and the build-out of a facility to design and manufacture lithium-ion battery packs, electric motors and electric components (the Powertrain Facility). Up to an aggregate principal amount of $363.9 million will be made available under the second term loan facility to finance up to 80% of the costs eligible for funding under the ATVM Program for the development of, and to build out the manufacturing facility for, our Model S sedan (the Model S Facility). Under the DOE Loan Facility, we are responsible for the remaining 20% of the costs eligible for funding under the ATVM Program for the projects as well as any cost overruns for each project. 

Through December 31, 2011, we have received draw downs under the DOE Loan Facility for an aggregate of $276.3 million, with interest rates ranging from 1.0% to 3.4%, for eligible project costs under both projects that we have incurred from December 15, 2008 through November 30, 2011. In February 2012, we received additional loans under the DOE Loan Facility for $14.4 million at interest rates ranging from 0.9% to 1.4%. 

In connection with the DOE Loan Facility, we have also issued the DOE a warrant to purchase up to 3,085,011 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $7.54 per share and a warrant to purchase up to 5,100 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $8.94 per share. Beginning on December 15, 2018 and until December 14, 2022, the shares subject to purchase under these warrants will become exercisable in quarterly amounts depending on the average outstanding balance of the loan during the prior quarter. These warrants may be exercised until December 15, 2023. If we prepay the DOE Loan Facility in full prior to December 15, 2018, no shares will be exercisable under these warrants, except in the case of an event of default, which could accelerate the vesting. 

For more information on the DOE Loan Facility, see Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

California Alternative Energy and Advanced Transportation Financing Authority Tax Incentives 

In December 2009, we finalized an arrangement with the California Alternative Energy and Advanced Transportation Financing Authority (CAEATFA) that will result in an exemption from California state sales and use taxes for up to $320 million of manufacturing equipment. To the extent all of this equipment is purchased and would otherwise be subject to California state sales and use tax, we believe this incentive would result in tax savings by us of up to approximately $31 million over a three year period starting in December 2009. The equipment purchases may be used only for three purposes: (i) to establish our production facility for Model S in California, (ii) to upgrade our Palo Alto powertrain production facility, and (iii) to expand our current Tesla Roadster assembly operations at our Menlo Park facility. As of December 31, 2011, we have received the tax exemption for approximately $97.9 million in qualifying purchases. 

In January 2012, we finalized an additional agreement with CAEATFA that will result in an exemption from California state sales and use taxes for up to $292 million of manufacturing equipment. To the extent all of this equipment is purchased and would otherwise be subject to California state sales and use tax, we believe this 

&#160; 

incentive would result in tax savings by us of up to approximately $24 million over a three year period starting in December 2011. The equipment purchases may be used only for two purposes: (i) to develop the Model X crossover vehicle and its production capacity in California and, (ii) to further upgrade our powertrain production facilities in California. As of January 31, 2012, we had not begun to submit qualifying equipment for this exemption. 

California Air Resources Board&#146;s Zero Emissions Vehicle Program 

In connection with the delivery and placement into service of our zero emission vehicles in a number of states, we have earned and will continue to earn tradable credits that can be sold. Under California&#146;s Low-Emission Vehicle Regulations, and similar laws in other states, vehicle manufacturers are required to ensure that a portion of the vehicles delivered for sale in that state during each model year are zero emission vehicles. Currently, the states of Arizona, California, Connecticut, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, Oregon, Rhode Island and Vermont have such laws in effect. These laws provide that a manufacturer of zero emission vehicles may earn credits, referred to as ZEV credits, and may sell excess credits to other manufacturers who apply such credits to comply with these regulatory requirements. As a manufacturer solely of zero emission vehicles, we earn ZEV credits on each vehicle sold in such states and have entered into agreements with other automobile manufacturers to sell the ZEV credits that we earn. Recently, California passed amendments to the ZEV mandate that would require all large volume manufacturers (those manufacturers selling 20,000 or more vehicles in California) to increase the number of zero emission vehicles sold. Under the new requirements, by 2025 up to 15.4% of each large volume manufacturers&#146; fleet must be made of zero emission vehicles. 

We have entered into three contracts for the sale of ZEV credits with three separate automotive manufacturers. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we earned revenue from the sale of ZEV credits of $2.7 million, $2.8 million and $8.2 million, respectively. Our current agreement with an automotive manufacturer provides for the sale of a partial quantity of the ZEV credits that we earn from the sale of vehicles that we manufacture in 2012, with an option for additional sales of uncommitted credits in future model years. We have also entered into a third contract with another automotive manufacturer to sell ZEV credits earned from the sale of Model S vehicles in 2012. To the extent we have additional ZEV credits available for sale, we may enter into new agreements with automotive manufacturers to sell such credits. 

Regulation&#151;Vehicle Safety and Testing 

Our vehicles are subject to, and the Tesla Roadster complies with, or is exempt from, numerous regulatory requirements established by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), including all applicable United States federal motor vehicle safety standards (FMVSS). As a manufacturer, we must self-certify that a vehicle meets or otherwise obtain an exemption from all applicable FMVSSs, as well as the NHTSA bumper standard, before the vehicle can be imported into or sold in the United States. There are numerous FMVSSs that apply to our vehicles. Examples of these requirements include: 

&#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; Crash-worthiness requirements &#151;including applicable and appropriate level of vehicle structure and occupant protection in frontal, side and interior impacts including through use of equipment such as seat belts and airbags which must satisfy applicable requirements; 

##TABLE_END &#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; Crash avoidance requirements &#151;including appropriate steering, braking and equipment requirements, such as, headlamps, tail lamps, and other required lamps, all of which must conform to various photometric and performance requirements; 

##TABLE_END &#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; Electric vehicle requirements &#151;limitations on electrolyte spillage, battery retention, and avoidance of electric shock following specified crash tests; 

##TABLE_END &#160; 

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; Windshield defrosting and defogging &#151;defined zones of the windshield must be cleared within a specified timeframe; and 

##TABLE_END &#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; Rearview mirror requirements &#151;rearward areas that must be visible to the driver via the mirrors. 

##TABLE_END As a small volume manufacturer that produces only electric vehicles, we have applied for, and have been granted, exemptions from certain advanced air bag and electronic stability control requirements, which apply to Tesla Roadsters manufactured through November 7, 2011. Under U.S. law, we are required to certify compliance with, or obtain exemption from all applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards and we have done so with respect to each vehicle we have offered for sale in the United States. Based on testing, engineering analysis, and other information, we have certified that the Tesla Roadster complies with, or is exempt from all applicable NHTSA standards by affixing a certification label to each Tesla Roadster sold. 

We are also required to comply with other requirements of federal laws administered by NHTSA, including the Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards, consumer information labeling requirements, early warning reporting requirements regarding warranty claims, field reports, death and injury reports and foreign recalls, and owner&#146;s manual requirements. 

Our vehicles sold in Europe are subject to European Union safety testing regulations. Many of those regulations, referred to as European Union Whole Vehicle Type Approval (WVTA), are different from the federal motor vehicle safety standards applicable in the United States and may require redesign and/or retesting. Our Tesla Roadsters are currently approved for sale on a limited basis in the European Union via the Small Series WVTA, which permits the manufacture and sale in the European Union of no more than 1,000 vehicles per year. Since we have fewer than 1,000 Tesla Roadsters left to sell, we have no plans to commence testing our Tesla Roadsters for the WVTA to assure compliance with the European Union requirements to permit unlimited sales. Similarly, Australia and Japan have additional testing regulations applicable to high volume manufacturers. We also plan to keep Australian and Japanese sales of our Tesla Roadsters at a low volume, and have no plans to comply with the Australian and Japanese requirements to permit high volume sales in these jurisdictions. In connection with the introduction of the Tesla Roadster in Australia and Japan, we conducted a frontal impact test based on European Union testing standards on the Tesla Roadster in November 2009, which is required for sales exceeding certain annual volumes outside the United States. While the Tesla Roadster met most of the criteria for occupant protection and all criteria for high voltage safety in the front impact crash test, there were two criteria that were not met in the test. Based on our analysis of additional compliance options in Australia and Japan, we believe such an outcome should not limit our ability to sell the Tesla Roadster in Australia below certain annual volumes or, subject to compliance with certain Japanese import rules, have a material impact on our ability to sell Tesla Roadsters in Japan. 

The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) requires us to calculate and display the range of our electric vehicles on a label we affix to the vehicle&#146;s window. The FTC specifies that we follow testing requirements set forth by the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) which further requires that we test using the United States EPA&#146;s combined city and highway testing cycles. In July 2011, the EPA announced new energy efficiency testing methodologies for electric vehicles. These new requirements, when applied to our vehicles, could reduce the advertised range of our vehicles by up to 30% as compared to methodologies we have used to estimate the range of the vehicles at a steady speed of 55 miles per hour. Shortly after the EPA issued their new requirements, the FTC issued a proposed rule that would harmonize current FTC label requirements with the EPA&#146;s new fuel economy label requirements. If finalized, changes to the testing cycles previously utilized could impair our ability to deliver Model S with the previously advertised range based on the steady speed of 55 miles per hour range methodology, which could result in the cancellation of a number of the over 8,000 reservations that have been placed for Model S as of December 31, 2011. Although the real life customer experience of the range of our electric vehicles will not change due to the changes in the FTC or EPA standards, the reduction in the advertised range could negatively impact our sales and harm our business. 

&#160; 

The Automobile Information and Disclosure Act requires manufacturers of motor vehicles to disclose certain information regarding the manufacturer&#146;s suggested retail price, optional equipment and pricing. In addition, the Act allows inclusion of city and highway fuel economy ratings, as determined by EPA, as well as crash test ratings as determined by NHTSA if such tests are conducted. 

Regulation&#151;EPA Emissions &#38; Certificate of Conformity 

The Clean Air Act requires that we obtain a Certificate of Conformity issued by the EPA and a California Executive Order issued by the California Air Resources Board (CARB) with respect to emissions for our vehicles, including Model S. The Certificate of Conformity is required for vehicles sold in states covered by the Clean Air Act&#146;s standards and both the Certificate of Conformity and the Executive Order is required for vehicles sold in states that have sought and received a waiver from the EPA to utilize California standards. The California standards for emissions control for certain regulated pollutants for new vehicles and engines sold in California are set by CARB. States that have adopted the California standards as approved by EPA also recognize the Executive Order for sales of vehicles. 

Regulation&#151;Battery Safety and Testing 

Our battery pack conforms with mandatory regulations that govern transport of &#147;dangerous goods&#148; that may present a risk in transportation, which includes lithium-ion batteries. The governing regulations, which are issued by the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) are based on the UN Recommendations on the Safe Transport of Dangerous Goods Model Regulations, and related UN Manual Tests and Criteria. The regulations vary by mode of transportation when these items are shipped such as by ocean vessel, rail, truck, or by air. 

We have completed the applicable transportation tests for our prototype and production battery packs demonstrating our compliance with the UN Manual of Tests and Criteria, including: 

&#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; Altitude simulation &#151;simulating air transport; 

##TABLE_END &#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; Thermal cycling &#151;assessing cell and battery seal integrity; 

##TABLE_END &#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; Vibration &#151;simulating vibration during transport; 

##TABLE_END &#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; Shock &#151;simulating possible impacts during transport; and 

##TABLE_END &#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; External short circuit &#151;simulating an external short circuit. 

##TABLE_END We also subject our battery packs to the appropriate tests specified in the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) J2464 and J2929 which include further tests such as immersion, humidity, and exposure to fire. 

We use lithium metal oxide cells in our battery packs. The cells do not contain any lead, mercury, cadmium, or other hazardous materials, heavy metals, or any toxic materials. Our battery packs include certain packaging materials which contain trace amounts of various hazardous chemicals whose use, storage and disposal is regulated under federal law. We currently have an agreement with a third party battery recycling company to recycle our battery packs. If a customer wishes to dispose of a battery pack from one of our vehicles, we anticipate accepting the depleted battery from the customer without any additional charge. 

Automobile Manufacturer and Dealer Regulation 

State law regulates the manufacture, distribution and sale of automobiles, and generally requires motor vehicle manufacturers and dealers to be licensed. To the extent possible, we plan to secure dealer licenses (or the equivalent of a dealer license) and engage in activities as a motor vehicle dealer in so far as we are permitted to do so as we open additional Tesla stores. Some states do not permit automobile manufacturers to be licensed as 

&#160; 

dealers or to act in the capacity of a dealer. To sell vehicles to residents of states where we are not licensed as a dealer, to the extent permitted by local law, both the actual sale and all activities related to the sale would generally have to occur out of state. In this scenario, it is possible that activities related to marketing, advertising, taking orders, taking reservations and reservation payments, and delivering vehicles could be viewed by a state as conducting unlicensed activities in the state or otherwise violating the state&#146;s motor vehicle industry laws. Regulators in these states may require us to hold and meet the requirements of appropriate dealer or other licenses and, in states in which manufacturers are prohibited from acting as dealers, may otherwise prohibit or impact our planned activities. 

In jurisdictions where we do not have a Tesla store, a customer may try to purchase our vehicles over the internet. However, some states, such as Kansas, have laws providing that a manufacturer cannot deliver a vehicle to a resident of such state except through a dealer licensed to do business in that state which may be interpreted to require us to open a store in the state of Kansas in order to sell vehicles to Kansas residents. Such laws may be interpreted to require us to open a store in such state before we sell vehicles to residents of such states. In some states where we have opened a viewing &#147;gallery&#148; that is not a full retail location, it is possible that a state regulator could take the position that activities at our gallery constitute an unlicensed motor vehicle dealership and thereby violates applicable manufacturer-dealer laws. Although we would prefer that a state regulator address any concerns by discussing such concerns with us and requesting voluntary compliance, a state could also take action against us, including levying fines or requiring that we refrain from certain activities. In addition, some states have requirements that service facilities be available with respect to vehicles sold in the state, which may be interpreted to also require that service facilities be available with respect to vehicles sold over the internet to residents of the state thereby limiting our ability to sell vehicles in states where we do not maintain service facilities. 

The foregoing examples of state laws governing the sale of motor vehicles are just some of the regulations we will face as we sell our vehicles. In many states, the application of state motor vehicle laws to our specific sales model is largely without precedent, particularly with respect to sales over the internet, and would be determined by a fact specific analysis of numerous factors, including whether we have a physical presence or employees in the applicable state, whether we advertise or conduct other activities in the applicable state, how the sale transaction is structured, the volume of sales into the state, and whether the state in question prohibits manufacturers from acting as dealers. As a result of the fact specific and untested nature of these issues, and the fact that applying these laws intended for the traditional automobile distribution model to our sales model allows for some interpretation and discretion by the regulators, state legal prohibitions may prevent us from selling to consumers in such state. 

California laws, and potentially the laws of other states, restrict the ability of licensed dealers to advertise or take deposits for vehicles before they are available. In November 2007, we became aware that the New Motor Vehicle Board of the California Department of Transportation has considered whether our reservation and advertising policies comply with these laws. To date, we have not received any communications on this topic from the New Motor Vehicle Board or the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) which has the power to enforce these laws. There can be no assurance that the DMV will not take the position that our vehicle reservation or advertising practices violate the law. We expect that if the DMV determines that we may have violated the law, it would initially discuss its concerns with us and request voluntary compliance. If we are ultimately found to be in violation of California law, we might be precluded from taking reservation payments, and the DMV could take other actions against us, including levying fines and requiring us to refund reservation payments. Resolution of any inquiry may also involve restructuring certain aspects of the reservation program. The DMV also has the power to suspend licenses to manufacture and sell vehicles in California, following a hearing on the merits, which it has typically exercised only in cases of significant or repeat violations and/or a refusal to comply with DMV directions. 

Certain states may have specific laws which apply to dealers, or manufacturers selling directly to consumers, or both. For example, the state of Washington requires that reservation payments or other payment 

&#160; 

received from residents in the state of Washington must be placed in a segregated account until delivery of the vehicle, which account must be unencumbered by any liens from creditors of the dealer and may not be used by the dealer. Consequently, we established a segregated account for reservation payments in the state of Washington in January 2010. There can be no assurance that other state or foreign jurisdictions will not require similar segregation of reservation payment received from customers. Our inability to access these funds for working capital purposes could harm our liquidity. 

Furthermore, while we have performed an analysis of the principal laws in the European Union relating to our distribution model and believe we comply with such laws, we have not performed a complete analysis in all foreign jurisdictions in which we may sell vehicles. Accordingly, there may be laws in jurisdictions we have not yet entered or laws we are unaware of in jurisdictions we have entered that may restrict our vehicle reservation practices or other business practices. Even for those jurisdictions we have analyzed, the laws in this area can be complex, difficult to interpret and may change over time. 

In addition to licensing laws, specific laws and regulations in each of the states (and their interpretation by regulators) may limit or determine how we sell, market, advertise, and otherwise solicit sales, take orders, take reservations and reservation payments, deliver, and service vehicles for consumers and engage in other activities in that state. While we have performed an analysis of laws in certain jurisdictions in which we have Tesla stores, we have not performed a complete analysis in all jurisdictions in which we may sell vehicles. Accordingly, there may be laws in jurisdictions we have not yet entered that may restrict our vehicle reservation practices or other business practices. 

Competition 

Competition in the automotive industry is intense and evolving. We believe the impact of new regulatory requirements for occupant safety and vehicle emissions, technological advances in powertrain and consumer electronics components, and shifting customer needs and expectations are causing the industry to evolve in the direction of electric-based vehicles. We believe the primary competitive factors in our markets include but are not limited to: 

&#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; technological innovation; 

##TABLE_END &#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; product quality and safety; 

##TABLE_END &#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; service options; 

##TABLE_END &#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; product performance; 

##TABLE_END &#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; design and styling; 

##TABLE_END &#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; product price; and 

##TABLE_END &#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; manufacturing efficiency. 

##TABLE_END We believe that our vehicles compete in the market both based on their traditional segment classification as well as based on their propulsion technology. Within the electric-based vehicle segment, there are three primary means of powertrain electrification which will differentiate various competitors in this market: 

&#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; Electric Vehicles are vehicles powered completely by a single on-board energy storage system (battery pack or fuel cell) which is refueled directly from an electricity source. Both the Tesla Roadster and Model S are examples of electric vehicles. 

##TABLE_END &#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; Plug-in Hybrid Vehicles are vehicles powered by both a battery pack with an electric motor and an internal combustion engine which can be refueled both with traditional petroleum fuels for the engine and electricity for the battery pack. The internal combustion engine can either work in parallel with the 

##TABLE_END &#160; 

##TABLE_START &#160; electric motor to power the wheels, such as in a parallel plug-in hybrid vehicle, or be used only to recharge the battery, such as in a series plug-in hybrid vehicle like the Chevrolet Volt. 

##TABLE_END &#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; Hybrid Electric Vehicles are vehicles powered by both a battery pack with an electric motor and an internal combustion engine but which can only be refueled with traditional petroleum fuels as the battery pack is charged via regenerative braking, such as used in a hybrid electric vehicle like the Toyota Prius. 

##TABLE_END The worldwide automotive market, particularly for alternative fuel vehicles, is highly competitive today and we expect it will become even more so in the future. Prior to the introduction of the Nissan Leaf in December 2010, no mass produced performance highway-capable electric vehicles were being sold in the United States. In Japan, Mitsubishi has been selling its electric iMiEV since April 2010. We expect additional competitors to enter the United States and Europe within the next several years, and as they do so, we expect that we will experience significant competition. With respect to our Tesla Roadster, we currently face strong competition from established automobile manufacturers, including manufacturers of high-performance vehicles, such as Porsche and Ferrari. In addition, upon the launch of our Model S sedan, we will face competition from existing and future automobile manufacturers in the extremely competitive premium sedan market, including Audi, BMW, Lexus and Mercedes. 

Many established and new automobile manufacturers have entered or have announced plans to enter the alternative fuel vehicle market. For example, Nissan introduced the Nissan Leaf, a fully electric vehicle in December 2010 and Ford has announced that it plans to introduce the pure electric Ford Focus and plug-in hybrid Ford C-Max in 2012. In addition, several manufacturers, including General Motors, Toyota, Ford, and Honda are each selling hybrid vehicles, and certain of these manufacturers have announced plug-in versions of their hybrid vehicles. For example, in December 2010, General Motors introduced the Chevrolet Volt, which is a plug-in hybrid vehicle that operates purely on electric power for a limited number of miles, at which time an internal combustion engine engages to recharge the battery. 

Moreover, it has been reported that BMW, Daimler, Lexus, Audi, Renault and Volkswagen are also developing electric vehicles. Several new start-ups have also announced plans to enter the market for performance electric vehicles, although none of these have yet come to market. Finally, electric vehicles have already been brought to market in China and other foreign countries and we expect a number of those manufacturers to enter the United States market as well. 

Most of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing and other resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to the design, development, manufacturing, distribution, promotion, sale and support of their products. Virtually all of our competitors have more extensive customer bases and broader customer and industry relationships than we do. In addition, almost all of these companies have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we do. Our competitors may be in a stronger position to respond quickly to new technologies and may be able to design, develop, market and sell their products more effectively. We believe our exclusive focus on electric vehicles and electric vehicle components, as well as our history of vehicle development and production, are the basis on which we can compete in the global automotive market in spite of the challenges posed by our competition; however, we have a limited history of operations. 

Intellectual Property 

Our success depends, at least in part, on our ability to protect our core technology and intellectual property. To accomplish this, we rely on a combination of patents, patent applications, trade secrets, including know-how, employee and third party nondisclosure agreements, copyright laws, trademarks, intellectual property licenses and other contractual rights to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our technology. As of December 31, 2011, we had 59 issued patents and more than 230 pending patent applications with the United States Patent and 

&#160; 

Trademark Office and internationally in a broad range of areas. Our issued patents start expiring in 2026. We intend to continue to file additional patent applications with respect to our technology. We do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or whether the examination process will require us to narrow our claims. Even if granted, there can be no assurance that these pending patent applications will provide us with protection. 

Seasonality 

Sales of the Tesla Roadster have fluctuated on a seasonal basis with increased sales during the spring and summer months in our second and third fiscal quarters relative to our fourth and first fiscal quarters. We note that, in general, automotive sales tend to decline over the winter season and we anticipate that our sales of Model S, Model X and other electric vehicles we introduce in the future may have similar seasonality. However, our limited operating history makes it difficult for us to judge the exact nature or extent of the seasonality of our business. We do not expect our powertrain component sales and development services revenue to be impacted to a significant extent by seasonality. 

Segment Information 

We have determined that we operate as one reporting segment, which is the design, development, manufacturing and sales of electric vehicles and electric powertrain components. For information regarding financial data by geographic areas, see Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2011, we had 1,417 full-time employees consisting of 452 in manufacturing, 315 in powertrain research and development, 276 in sales, marketing and service, 216 in vehicle design and engineering, and 158 in general and administration. Of all of our employees, 1,088 are located in our Northern California offices (including the Tesla Factory), 81 are located at our Los Angeles facility and 48 are located at our United Kingdom offices. The other employees are located in our domestic sales and service centers and other international locations. None of our employees are currently represented by labor unions or are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with respect to their employment. To date, we have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relationship with our employees to be good. 

Available Information 

We file or furnish periodic reports and amendments thereto, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K; proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Such reports, amendments, proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website ( www.sec.gov ) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. Our reports, amendments thereto, proxy statements and other information are also made available, free of charge, on our investor relations website at ir.teslamotors.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such information with the SEC. The information posted on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

&#160; 

##TABLE_START 

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations:
 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT&#146;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ##TABLE_END The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Overview and 2011 Highlights 

We design, develop, manufacture and sell high-performance fully electric vehicles and advanced electric vehicle powertrain components. We own our sales and service network, and market and sell our vehicles directly to consumers via the phone and internet, in-person at our corporate events and through our network of Tesla stores. We were incorporated in Delaware in July 2003, opened our first store in Los Angeles, California in May 2008, and introduced our first vehicle, the Tesla Roadster, in early 2008. We are targeting our second vehicle, the Model S sedan, for a significantly broader customer base than the Tesla Roadster and plan to manufacture Model S in higher volumes than those for the Tesla Roadster. First customer deliveries of Model S are planned by July 2012. We have also recently revealed an early prototype of the Model X crossover, a vehicle based on the Model S platform. This unique vehicle has been designed to fill the niche between the roominess of a minivan and the style of an SUV, while having high performance features such as a dual motor all-wheel drive system. 

During the year ended December 31, 2011, we recognized total revenues of $204.2 million, an increase of 75% over total revenues of $116.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Automotive sales revenue of $148.6 million increased 53% from the year ended December 31, 2010, driven by strong customer demand for the Tesla Roadster globally and significantly higher powertrain component sales. We completed 2011 with cumulative deliveries worldwide from inception of approximately 2,150 Roadsters and concluded the production run of the Tesla Roadster in January 2012. We expect to sell our remaining Tesla Roadsters primarily in Europe and Asia during 2012 until our inventory is depleted. 

Development services revenue increased to $55.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 from $19.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, due primarily to our development activities for the Toyota Motor Corporation (Toyota) RAV4 EV program for a full electric powertrain system. We completed planned milestones and deliveries of samples to Toyota during the year, and we currently expect to complete our remaining development services milestones and sample deliveries during the first quarter of 2012. 

We made significant progress on the Model S program this year and we remain on schedule to commence customer deliveries by July 2012. During the year, we moved from building alpha to beta prototypes and performed detailed testing of systems integration, performance and safety. Our significant efforts in development and testing, both of which are ongoing, has allowed us to further refine the overall design of Model S and its constituent parts as well as the production and assembly processes to manufacture the vehicle. In October 2011, 

&#160; 

we finalized a long term supply contract with Panasonic Corporation for battery cells to be used in our products, which gives us increased visibility into our variable costs. 

Research and development expenses included expenses related to Model S alpha and beta prototype build, development of the Tesla Factory, significant engineering, design and testing work being undertaken to support Model S development, design and engineering activities related to Model X, and other research and development activities. Research and development expenses for the year ended December 31, 2011 were $209.0 million, compared to $93.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. 

In addition to Model S engineering, we also experienced significant activity at the Tesla Factory, where we intend to produce our Model S, Model X and future vehicles. Significant construction has taken place and detailed manufacturing readiness plans are being executed. Almost all of our Model S vehicle manufacturing equipment has been installed at the Tesla Factory. As part of our testing and qualifying activities of our manufacturing equipment, we are now assembling beta prototype vehicles at the Tesla Factory and expect to start building release candidate vehicles in the first quarter of 2012. During this process, we are continuing to fine-tune our production processes and incorporate a higher percentage of production-intent components into the cars. Once we complete these activities, the Tesla Factory will be fully commissioned for production and ready for its intended use. As a result of investments being made in the Tesla Factory and related supplier tooling for Model S, capital expenditures increased to $197.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to $105.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Our capital expenditures in 2010 were comprised primarily of payments we had made towards the purchase of the Tesla Factory from New United Motor Manufacturing, Inc. (NUMMI). 

With the opening of our Santana Row store in 2011, we launched what we believe to be a new and unique retail experience designed to engage and inform potential customers about electric vehicles in general, learn about Tesla&#146;s innovations and configure their cars through hands-on interactive screens. During the year, we further expanded our company-owned retail network with the opening of several more stores in the United States utilizing the new store concept embodied by our Santana Row Tesla store. Some of these new stores will replace existing stores which we plan to continue using as service locations. As a result of our activities to support the sales of the Tesla Roadster, the opening and operation of new stores, higher store-related and marketing activities, as well as the growth of our business in general, we incurred higher selling, general and administrative expenses of $104.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 when compared to expenses of $84.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. 

In June 2011, we completed a follow-on offering of common stock in which a total of 6,095,000 shares of our common stock were sold, and received cash proceeds of $172.7 million, net of underwriting discounts. Concurrent with this offering, we also sold 1,416,000 shares of common stock to Elon Musk, our Chief Executive Officer and 637,475 shares of common stock to Blackstar Investco LLC, an affiliate of Daimler and received total cash proceeds of $59.1 million in these private placements. No underwriting discounts or commissions were paid in connection with these private placements. 

Along with the proceeds from our public offerings and private placements, our continued draw-downs under the Department of Energy Loan Facility (DOE Loan Facility) and other sources of cash including cash from the sales of the Tesla Roadster, development services to Toyota, sales of powertrain components to Daimler, and cash received from refundable reservation payments for our Model S, provided the liquidity to fund our Model S, Model X and powertrain development activities, as well as our capital investments in manufacturing infrastructure. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we received $204.4 million in draw-downs under the DOE Loan Facility bringing our total long-term debt under the facility to $276.3 million. As we continue to progress on our Model S and powertrain activities, we expect to continue making draw-downs under the DOE Loan Facility. 

As of December 31, 2011, we had $492.7 million in principal sources of liquidity available from our cash and cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities, cash held in our dedicated DOE account and the remaining amounts available under the DOE Loan Facility. This includes our cash and cash equivalents in the 

&#160; 

amount of $255.3 million which includes investments in money market funds, short-term marketable securities of $25.1 million, cash of $23.5 million deposited in a dedicated DOE account in accordance with the requirements of our DOE Loan Facility, and $188.8 million available under the DOE Loan Facility. We expect that these principal sources of liquidity together with our current projections of cash flow from operating activities will provide us adequate liquidity until we reach profitability in 2013. 

Management Opportunities, Challenges and Risks 

Our principal focus has continued to be on the disciplined development of Model S so that we can commence deliveries by July 2012. We have also been focused on the continued sales of the Tesla Roadster and powertrain components, development services activities with our strategic partners, advanced engineering work on the planned Model X and pursuing new electric powertrain opportunities with automobile manufacturers. 

In January 2012, we concluded the production run of our current generation Tesla Roadster. Through December 31, 2011, we had delivered approximately 2,150 Roadsters to customers. We plan to sell our remaining Tesla Roadsters during 2012 primarily in Europe and Asia until our inventory is depleted. 

Powertrain component sales in 2011 were driven primarily by our deliveries to supply Daimler AG (Daimler) with battery packs and chargers for the Daimler Smart fortwo and A-Class EV programs. We completed both of these production programs as of December 31, 2011. In July 2011, we entered into a supply and services agreement with Toyota for the production of an electric powertrain system, including a battery pack, charging system, inverter, motor, gearbox and associated software, which will be integrated into the Toyota RAV4 EV. Additionally, we will provide Toyota with certain services related to the supply of these components. Pursuant to the agreement, Toyota will pay us approximately $100 million from 2012 through 2014 based on our delivery of these components for the Toyota RAV4 EV. Due to the wind down of the Daimler Smart fortwo and A-Class EV production programs at the end of 2011, we expect powertrain component sales to be limited until the planned start of production of the Toyota RAV4 EV powertrain system in the first half of 2012. 

As we have a limited number of the Tesla Roadsters left for sale and as we expect powertrain component sales to decline until the start of production for the Toyota RAV4 EV program, we anticipate our automotive sales will decline, potentially significantly, just prior to the planned launch of our Model S. The launch of our Model S could be delayed for a number of reasons and any such delays may be significant and would extend the period in which we would generate limited revenues from sales of our electric vehicles and electric powertrain systems. 

We completed all of our planned milestones and deliveries of samples to Toyota during 2011, and we currently expect to complete our remaining development services milestones and sample deliveries during the first quarter of 2012. As such, we expect that the remaining development services revenue under the Toyota RAV4 EV program will also be recognized in the first quarter. Since the revenue related to development services milestones are recognized when achieved while milestone costs must be expensed as incurred, our development services gross margin will reflect this favorability when we recognize our final Toyota RAV4 EV milestones in 2012. In November 2011, we received a letter of intent from Daimler for a full electric powertrain program for a vehicle in the Mercedes line and recently, we received a purchase order to begin the development work. However, we have not yet finalized with Daimler the terms for this program and may never do so. Due to timing differences that may arise between the recognition of future milestone revenue and the underlying costs of development services, the gross margin from our development services activities may vary from period to period as we have seen under our previous development services agreements including that for the Toyota RAV4 EV program. 

The build of Model S beta prototypes continues to progress and we will begin building release candidate vehicles in the first quarter of 2012. We continue to work closely with suppliers to design, develop and test components that will meet our anticipated production design specifications and schedule. Ensuring that our design, engineering, operations and manufacturing engineering teams, and our suppliers, execute on all 

&#160; 

significant activities will be critical to a timely launch of first customer deliveries of our Model S by July 2012. Our continuing negotiations with suppliers and the adequate maturation of our manufacturing capabilities will influence our ability to achieve the cost per unit that we are currently projecting. Our plan to commence deliveries of Model S by July 2012 is also dependent upon the timely availability of funds from the DOE Loan Facility, upon our finalizing the related design, engineering, component procurement, testing, build out and manufacturing plans in a timely manner and upon our ability to execute these plans within the current timeline. 

In February 2012, we revealed an early prototype of the Model X crossover as the first vehicle we intend to develop by leveraging the Model S platform. This unique vehicle has been designed to fill the niche between the roominess of a minivan and the style of an SUV, while having high performance features such as a dual motor all-wheel drive system. We currently plan to start production of Model X in the fourth quarter of 2013 with significant deliveries in 2014. Our ability to develop and introduce the Model X in this timeframe is based on our expectations of leveraging the Model S platform. Additionally, if there is a lower level of commonality between Model S and Model X than anticipated, our future development and tooling costs may exceed expectations. 

Our operating expenses in 2011 have been significant as we continued to execute on the Model S program and are systematically and strategically expanding our sales and service infrastructure globally to support the launch of Model S. As we continue to make significant investments in research and development and our infrastructure to launch Model S as well as incur costs for the development of Model X, we expect to continue generating a net loss until we reach planned volume sales of Model S in 2013. As pre-production expenses and development and prototyping costs cannot be capitalized, we expect our operating expenses to continue increasing due to our ongoing activities to prepare the Tesla Factory for production, refine Model S through our engineering and testing on beta prototype and release candidate vehicles, and continue the advanced engineering work on Model X. Once we start recognizing revenue from the sales of Model S, our Model S production costs, including direct parts, material and labor costs, manufacturing overhead and amortized tooling, and logistics, will begin to be reflected in cost of automotive sales. 

Capital spending for the Model S program will continue into 2012 as we complete our commissioning activities of the Tesla Factory and as we make final payments for tooling and manufacturing equipment required for production. Depreciation of our capital expenditures related to the manufacturing of Model S will begin with the start of Model S production. We anticipate that most of the capital expenditures on Model S will continue to be funded by the DOE Loan Facility until the launch of Model S. We also anticipate our aggregate capital expenditures for 2012 to be comparable to that in 2011, primarily focused on vehicle development and manufacturing activities for Model S and Model X. 

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience, as appropriate, and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. We believe that the following critical accounting policies involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity than our other accounting policies. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. 

&#160; 

Revenue Recognition 

Automotive Sales 

We recognize automotive sales revenue from sales of the Tesla Roadster, including vehicle options, accessories and destination charges, vehicle service and sales of zero emission vehicle, or ZEV credits. We also recognize automotive sales revenue from the sales of electric vehicle powertrain components, such as battery packs and battery chargers, to other manufacturers. We recognize revenue when (i) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (ii) delivery has occurred and there are no uncertainties regarding customer acceptance; (iii) fees are fixed or determinable; and (iv) collection is reasonably assured. 

Automotive sales consist primarily of revenue earned from the sale of vehicles. Sales or other amounts collected in advance of meeting all of the revenue recognition criteria are not recognized in the consolidated statements of operations and are instead recorded as deferred revenue on our consolidated balance sheets. Prior to February 2010, we did not provide direct financing for the purchase of the Tesla Roadster although a third-party lender has provided financing arrangements to our customers in the United States. Under these arrangements we have been paid in full by the customer at the time of purchase. Starting in February 2010, we began offering a leasing program to qualified customers in the United States. 

Automotive sales also consist of revenue earned from the sales of vehicle options, accessories and destination charges. While these sales may take place separately from a vehicle sale, they are often part of one vehicle sale agreement resulting in multiple element arrangements. Contract interpretation is sometimes required to determine the appropriate accounting for recognition of our revenue, including whether the deliverables specified in the multiple element arrangement should be treated as separate units of accounting, and, if so, how the price should be allocated among the elements, when to recognize revenue for each element, and the period over which revenue should be recognized. We are also required to evaluate whether a delivered item has value on a stand-alone basis prior to delivery of the remaining items by determining whether we have made separate sales of such items or whether the undelivered items are essential to the functionality of the delivered items. Further, we assess whether we know the fair value of the undelivered items, determined by reference to stand-alone sales of such items. 

To date, we have been able to establish the fair value for each of the deliverables within the multiple element arrangements because we sell each of the vehicles, vehicle accessories and options separately, outside of any multiple element arrangements. As each of these items has stand alone value to the customer, revenue from sales of vehicle accessories and options are recognized when those specific items are delivered to the customer. Increased complexity to our sales agreements or changes in our judgments and estimates regarding application of these revenue recognition guidelines could result in a change in the timing or amount of revenue recognized in future periods. 

Effective January 1, 2011, we adopted amended accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) for multiple deliverable revenue arrangements on a prospective basis for applicable transactions originating or materially modified after January 1, 2011. The new standard changes the requirements for establishing separate units of accounting in a multiple element arrangement and requires the allocation of arrangement consideration to each deliverable to be based on the relative selling price. For fiscal 2011 and future periods, when a sales arrangement contains multiple elements, we allocate revenue to each element based on a selling price hierarchy. The selling price for a deliverable is based on its vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) if available, third party evidence (TPE) if VSOE is not available, or estimated selling price if neither VSOE nor TPE is available. To date, we have been able to establish the fair value for each of the deliverables within the multiple element arrangements because we sell each of the vehicles, vehicles accessories and options separately, outside of any multiple element arrangements. Therefore, there were no material differences between total revenue reported and pro forma total revenues that would have been reported during the year ended December 31, 2011, if the transactions entered into or materially modified after January 1, 2011 were subject to previous accounting guidance. 

&#160; 

Development Services 

Revenue from development services arrangements consist of revenue earned from the development of electric vehicle powertrain components for other automobile manufacturers, including the design and development of battery packs, chargers and sample vehicles to meet a customer&#146;s specifications. Beginning in the quarter ended March 31, 2010, we started entering into such contracts with the expectation that our development services would constitute a viable revenue-generating activity. Revenue is recognized as a development arrangement is finalized, the performance requirements of each development arrangement are met and collection is reasonably assured. Where development arrangements include substantive at-risk milestones, revenue is recognized based upon the achievement of the contractually-defined milestones. Amounts collected in advance of meeting all of the revenue recognition criteria are not recognized in the consolidated statement of operations and are instead recorded as deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheet. Increased complexity to our development agreements or changes in our judgments and estimates regarding application of these revenue recognition guidelines could result in a change in the timing or amount of revenue recognized in future periods. 

Costs of development services are expensed as incurred. Costs of development services incurred in periods prior to the finalization of an agreement are recorded as research and development expenses; once an agreement is finalized, these costs are recorded in cost of development services. 

Prior to 2010, compensation from the Smart fortwo EV development arrangement with Daimler, which is discussed below under &#147;Development Compensation&#148;, was recorded as an offset to research and development expenses. This early arrangement was motivated primarily by the opportunity to engage Daimler and at the same time, jointly progress our own research and development activities with the associated development compensation. 

Development Compensation 

We began receiving payments under the Smart fortwo EV development arrangement with Daimler in the year ended December 31, 2008 to compensate us for the cost of our development activities. We deferred recognition for these payments received in advance of the execution of the final agreement because a number of significant contractual terms were not in place prior to that time. Upon entering into the final agreement in May 2009, we began recognizing the deferred development compensation as an offset to our research and development expenses on a straight-line basis. This amount was recognized over the expected life of the agreement, beginning in May 2009 and continuing through November 2009. Payments that we received upon the achievement of development milestones subsequent to contract execution in May 2009 were recognized upon achievement and acceptance of the respective milestones. All amounts received under this development agreement have been recognized as an offset to our research and development expenses in the consolidated statement of operations. All development activities under this agreement were completed as of December 31, 2009. 

Marketable Securities 

During the year ended December 31, 2011, we purchased marketable securities including commercial paper and corporate debt. All marketable securities are designated as available-for-sale and reported at estimated fair value, with unrealized gains and losses recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss which is included within stockholders&#146; equity. Realized gains and losses on the sale of available-for-sale marketable securities are recorded in other expense, net. The cost of available-for-sale marketable securities sold is based on the specific identification method. Interest, dividends, amortization and accretion of purchase premiums and discounts on our marketable securities are included in other expense, net. Available-for-sale marketable securities with maturities greater than three months at the date of purchase and remaining maturities of one year or less are classified as short-term marketable securities. Where temporary declines in fair value exist, we have the ability and the intent to hold these securities for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value. 

&#160; 

We regularly review all of our marketable securities for other-than-temporary declines in fair value. The review includes but is not limited to (i) the consideration of the cause of the impairment, (ii) the creditworthiness of the security issuers, (iii) the length of time a security is in an unrealized loss position, and (iv) our ability to hold the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value. 

Inventory Valuation 

We value our inventories at the lower of cost or market. Cost is computed using standard cost, which approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out basis. We record inventory write-downs for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventories based upon assumptions about future demand forecasts. If our inventory on hand is in excess of our future demand forecast, the excess amounts are written off. 

We also review inventory to determine whether its carrying value exceeds the net amount realizable upon the ultimate sale of the inventory. This requires us to determine the estimated selling price of our vehicles less the estimated cost to convert inventory on hand into a finished product. 

Once inventory is written-down, a new, lower-cost basis for that inventory is established and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recorded write-downs of $1.8 million, $1.0 million and $1.4 million, in cost of automotive sales, respectively. 

The inventory amounts are based on our current estimates of demand, selling prices and production costs. Should our estimates of future selling prices or production costs change, material changes to these reserves may be required. Further, a small change in our estimates may result in a material charge to our reported financial results. 

Warranties 

We accrue warranty reserves at the time a vehicle or powertrain component is delivered to a customer. Warranty reserves include management&#146;s best estimate of the projected costs to repair or to replace any items under warranty, based on actual warranty experience as it becomes available and other known factors that may impact our evaluation of historical data. We review our reserves at least quarterly to ensure that our accruals are adequate in meeting expected future warranty obligations, and we will adjust our estimates as needed. Initial warranty data can be limited early in the launch of a new vehicle or powertrain component and accordingly, the adjustments that we record may be material. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had $6.3 million and $5.4 million in warranty reserves, respectively. Adjustments to warranty reserves are recorded in cost of automotive sales. 

It is likely that as we sell additional Tesla Roadsters and powertrain components and as we repair or replace items under warranty, we will acquire additional information on the projected costs to service work under warranty and may need to make additional adjustments. Further, a small change in our warranty estimates may result in a material charge to our reported financial results. 

Valuation of Stock-Based Awards, Common Stock and Warrants 

Stock-Based Compensation 

We use the fair value method of accounting for our stock options granted to employees and Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) which require us to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for the stock-based awards, based on the grant date fair value of the awards. The fair value of the awards is estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The resulting cost is recognized over the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the awards, usually the vesting period which is generally four years for stock options and six months for the ESPP. Stock-based compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis, net of forfeitures. 

&#160; 

The fair value of each stock-based award was estimated on the grant date for the periods below using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions. 

&#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#160; Year Ended December 31, &#160; &#160; &#160; 2011 &#160; &#160; 2010 &#160; &#160; 2009 &#160; Risk-free interest rate: 

&#160; &#160; &#160; Stock options 

&#160; &#160; 2.0 % &#160; &#160; 2.0 % &#160; &#160; 2.2 % ESPP 

&#160; &#160; 0.2 % &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; Expected term (in years): 

&#160; &#160; &#160; Stock options 

&#160; &#160; 6.0 &#160; &#160; &#160; 5.3 &#160; &#160; &#160; 4.6 &#160; ESPP 

&#160; &#160; 0.5 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; Expected volatility: 

&#160; &#160; &#160; Stock options 

&#160; &#160; 70 % &#160; &#160; 71 % &#160; &#160; 64 % ESPP 

&#160; &#160; 59 % &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; Dividend yield: 

&#160; &#160; &#160; Stock options 

&#160; &#160; 0.0 % &#160; &#160; 0.0 % &#160; &#160; 0.0 % ESPP 

&#160; &#160; 0.0 % &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; ##TABLE_END If in the future we determine that another method for calculating the fair value of our stock-based awards is more reasonable, or if another method for calculating the above input assumptions is prescribed by authoritative guidance, the fair value calculated for our stock-based awards could change significantly. 

The Black-Scholes option-pricing model requires inputs such as the risk-free interest rate, expected term and expected volatility. Further, the forfeiture rate also affects the amount of aggregate compensation. These inputs are subjective and generally require significant judgment. 

The risk-free interest rate that we use is based on the United States Treasury yield in effect at the time of grant for zero coupon United States Treasury notes with maturities approximating each grant&#146;s expected life. Given our limited history with employee grants, we use the &#147;simplified&#148; method in estimating the expected term for our employee grants. The &#147;simplified&#148; method, as permitted by the SEC, is calculated as the average of the time-to-vesting and the contractual life of the options. 

Our expected volatility is derived from the historical volatilities of several unrelated public companies within industries related to our business, including the automotive OEM, automotive retail, automotive parts and battery technology industries, because we have limited trading history on our common stock. When making the selections of our peer companies within industries related to our business to be used in the volatility calculation, we also considered the stage of development, size and financial leverage of potential comparable companies. Our historical volatility is weighted based on certain qualitative factors and combined to produce a single volatility factor. 

We estimate our forfeiture rate based on an analysis of our actual forfeitures and will continue to evaluate the appropriateness of the forfeiture rate based on actual forfeiture experience, analysis of employee turnover behavior and other factors. Quarterly changes in the estimated forfeiture rate can have a significant effect on reported stock-based compensation expense, as the cumulative effect of adjusting the rate for all expense amortization is recognized in the period the forfeiture estimate is changed. If a revised forfeiture rate is higher than the previously estimated forfeiture rate, an adjustment is made that will result in a decrease to the stock-based compensation expense recognized in the consolidated financial statements. If a revised forfeiture rate is lower than the previously estimated forfeiture rate, an adjustment is made that will result in an increase to the stock-based compensation expense recognized in the consolidated financial statements. 

As we accumulate additional employee stock-based awards data over time and as we incorporate market data related to our common stock, we may calculate significantly different volatilities, expected lives and 

&#160; 

forfeiture rates, which could materially impact the valuation of our stock-based awards and the stock-based compensation expense that we will recognize in future periods. Stock-based compensation expense is recorded in our cost of revenues, research and development expenses, and selling, general and administrative expenses. 

Unadjusted Error in 2009 

In June 2010, we identified an error related to the understatement in stock-based compensation expense subsequent to the issuance of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009. 

In the fourth quarter of 2009, we granted certain stock options for which a portion of the grant was immediately vested. We erroneously accounted for the expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the award, while expense recognition should always be at least commensurate with the number of awards vesting during the period. As a result, selling, general and administrative expenses and net loss for the year ended December 31, 2009 were understated by $2.7 million. The error did not have an effect on the valuation of the stock options. As stock-based compensation expense is a non-cash item, there was no impact on net cash used in operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2009. 

To correct this error, we recorded additional stock-based compensation of $2.4 million during the three months ended June 30, 2010. We considered the impact of the error on reported operating expenses and trends in operating results and determined that the impact of the error was not material to previously reported financial information as well as those related to the three months ended June 30, 2010. 

Common Stock Valuation 

Upon the completion of our IPO on July 2, 2010, our common stock has been valued by reference to its publicly traded price. Prior to the IPO, we historically granted stock options with exercise prices equal to the fair value of our common stock as determined at the date of grant by our Board of Directors. Because there was no public market for our common stock, our Board of Directors determined the fair value of our common stock by considering a number of objective and subjective factors, including the following: 

&#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; our sales of convertible preferred stock to unrelated third parties; 

##TABLE_END &#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; our operating and financial performance; 

##TABLE_END &#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; the lack of liquidity of our capital stock; 

##TABLE_END &#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; trends in our industry; 

##TABLE_END &#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; arm&#146;s length, third-party sales of our stock; and 

##TABLE_END &#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; contemporaneous valuations performed by an unrelated third-party. 

##TABLE_END &#160; 

There is inherent uncertainty in these estimates and if we had made different assumptions than those used, the amount of our stock-based compensation expense, net loss and net loss per share amounts could have been significantly different. The following table summarizes, by grant date, the number of stock options granted since January 1, 2008 through the completion of our IPO on July 2, 2010, and the associated per share exercise price, which equaled the fair value of our common stock for each of these grants. 

&#160;

##TABLE_START Grant Date 

&#160; Number of Options Granted &#160; &#160; Exercise Price and Fair Value per Share of Common Stock &#160; June 4, 2008 

&#160; &#160; 762,137 &#160; &#160; $ 2.70 &#160; July 8, 2008 

&#160; &#160; 278,308 &#160; &#160; &#160; 2.70 &#160; September 3, 2008 

&#160; &#160; 200,155 &#160; &#160; &#160; 2.70 &#160; October 29, 2008 

&#160; &#160; 205,156 &#160; &#160; &#160; 2.70 &#160; March 2, 2009 

&#160; &#160; 214,813 &#160; &#160; &#160; 2.70 &#160; April 13, 2009 

&#160; &#160; 1,005,837 &#160; &#160; &#160; 2.70 &#160; April 22, 2009 

&#160; &#160; 105,184 &#160; &#160; &#160; 2.70 &#160; August 4, 2009 

&#160; &#160; 323,063 &#160; &#160; &#160; 2.94 &#160; October 21, 2009 

&#160; &#160; 590,638 &#160; &#160; &#160; 6.15 &#160; December 4, 2009 

&#160; &#160; 7,977,444 &#160; &#160; &#160; 6.63 &#160; December 16, 2009 

&#160; &#160; 58,995 &#160; &#160; &#160; 6.63 &#160; March 3, 2010 

&#160; &#160; 402,660 &#160; &#160; &#160; 9.96 &#160; April 28, 2010 

&#160; &#160; 256,320 &#160; &#160; &#160; 13.23 &#160; June 12, 2010 

&#160; &#160; 1,135,710 &#160; &#160; &#160; 14.17 &#160; ##TABLE_END Included in the December 4, 2009 awards, were 6,711,972 stock options granted to our Chief Executive Officer comprised of two grants. In recognition of his and our company&#146;s achievements and to create incentives for future success, the Board of Directors approved an option grant representing 4% of our fully-diluted share base prior to such grant as of December 4, 2009, or 3,355,986 stock options, with 1/4th of the shares vesting immediately, and 1/36th of the remaining shares scheduled to vest each month over three years, assuming continued employment through each vesting date. In addition, to create incentives for the attainment of clear performance objectives around a key element of our current business plan&#151;the successful launch and commercialization of Model S&#151;the Board of Directors approved additional options totaling an additional 4% of our fully-diluted shares prior to such grant as of December 4, 2009, with a vesting schedule based entirely on the attainment of performance objectives as follows, assuming Mr. Musk&#146;s continued service to us through each vesting date: 

&#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; 1/4th of the shares subject to the option are scheduled to vest upon the successful completion of Model S Engineering Prototype; 

##TABLE_END &#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; 1/4th of the shares subject to the option are scheduled to vest upon the successful completion of Model S Validation Prototype; 

##TABLE_END &#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; 1/4th of the shares subject to the option are scheduled to vest upon the completion of the first Model S Production Vehicle; and 

##TABLE_END &#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; 1/4th of the shares subject to the option are scheduled to vest upon the completion of the 10,000th Model S Production Vehicle. 

##TABLE_END If Mr. Musk does not meet one or more of the above milestones prior to the fourth anniversary of the date of grant, he will forfeit his right to the unvested portion of the grant. 

Included in our June and September 2010 stock option grants were 666,300 and 20,000 stock options granted respectively, to various members of our senior management with a vesting schedule based entirely on the attainment of the same performance objectives as those outlined for Mr. Musk above. 

&#160; 

Prior to our IPO which was completed on July 2, 2010, our Board of Directors performed valuations of our common stock for purposes of granting stock options in a manner consistent with the methods outlined in the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Practice Aid, Valuation of Privately-Held-Company Equity Securities Issued as Compensation . The enterprise value input of our common stock valuations were derived either using fundamental analysis (income and market approaches) or based on a recent round of financing (option pricing approach). The income approach estimates the enterprise value of the company by discounting the expected future cash flows of the company to present value. We have applied discount rates that reflect the risks associated with our cash flow projections and have used venture capital rates of return for companies at a similar stage of development as us, as a proxy for our cost of capital. Our discounted cash flow calculations are sensitive to highly subjective assumptions that we were required to make at each valuation date relating to appropriate discount rates for various components of our business. For example, the discount rates used to value the cash flow projections from the Model S business factored in the low cost debt we expected to raise from the U.S. Department of Energy. 

&#160;

##TABLE_START Valuation Date 

&#160; Range of Discount Rates &#160; May 15, 2008 

&#160; &#160; 30.0 &#150; 40.0 % December 31, 2008 

&#160; &#160; 30.0 &#150; 40.0 % February 28, 2009 

&#160; &#160; 30.0 &#150; 40.0 % May 11, 2009 

&#160; &#160; 16.2 &#150; 34.8 % August 1, 2009 

&#160; &#160; 16.2 &#150; 34.8 % October 15, 2009 

&#160; &#160; 12.4 &#150; 27.1 % November 27, 2009 

&#160; &#160; 12.4 &#150; 27.1 % February 23, 2010 

&#160; &#160; 11.4 &#150; 20.0 % April 21, 2010 

&#160; &#160; 14.4 &#150; 20.0 % June 9, 2010 

&#160; &#160; 14.5 &#150; 20.0 % ##TABLE_END Our projected cash flows were primarily derived from our Tesla Roadster, Model S and powertrain revenue streams. In more recent valuations, these cash flow projections took into account the fact that we had been selling the Tesla Roadster since 2008, that we began selling powertrain components in the quarter ended December 31, 2009 and our anticipation of Model S production in mid-2012. 

Under the market approach, the total enterprise value of the company was estimated by comparing our business to similar businesses whose securities are actively traded in public markets, or businesses that are involved in a public or private transaction. Prior transactions in our stock were also considered as part of the market approach methodology. We selected revenue valuation multiples derived from trading multiples of public companies that participate in the automotive OEM, automotive retail, automotive parts and battery technology industries. These valuation multiples were then applied to the equivalent financial metric of our business, giving consideration to differences between our company and similar companies for such factors as company size and growth prospects. 

For those reports that relied on the fundamental analysis, we prepared a financial forecast to be used in the computation of the enterprise value for both the market approach and the income approach. The financial forecasts took into account our past experience and future expectations. The risks associated with achieving these forecasts were assessed in selecting the appropriate discount rate. As discussed below, there is inherent uncertainty in these estimates. Second, we allocated the resulting equity value among the securities that comprise our capital structure using the Option-Pricing Method. The aggregate value of the common stock derived from the Option-Pricing Method was then divided by the number of common shares outstanding to arrive at the per common share value. For those reports before our IPO that relied on the recent round of financing, we back-solved for the total equity value such that the value of the instrument sold in the recent round as calculated by the option pricing model was consistent with the observed transaction price. 

&#160; 

Our Board of Directors considered the valuations derived from the approaches above, the probability and timing of completing an IPO as of those dates, as well as other qualitative factors in arriving at our common stock valuations, including the following: 

&#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; significant operating losses since inception; 

##TABLE_END &#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; macroeconomic uncertainty in 2008; 

##TABLE_END &#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; the absence of a significant IPO market throughout 2008 and continuing through the second quarter of 2009; and 

##TABLE_END &#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#149; &#160; other market developments that influence forecasted revenue. 

##TABLE_END Our common stock valuations have required the significant use of estimates and assumptions. If different estimates and assumptions had been used, our common stock valuations could have been significantly different and related stock-based compensation expense may be materially impacted. 

Warrants 

We have accounted for our freestanding warrants to purchase shares of our convertible preferred stock as liabilities at fair value upon issuance. We have recorded the warrants as a liability because the underlying shares of convertible preferred stock are contingently redeemable and, therefore, may obligate us to transfer assets at some point in the future. The warrants are subject to re-measurement to fair value at each balance sheet date and any change in fair value is recognized as a component of other expense, net, on the consolidated statements of operations. 

In January 2010, we issued a warrant to the DOE in connection with the closing of the DOE Loan Facility to purchase shares of our Series E convertible preferred stock at an exercise price of $2.51 per share. This convertible preferred stock warrant became a warrant to purchase shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $7.54 per share upon the closing of our IPO in July 2010. Beginning on December 15, 2018 and until December 14, 2022, the shares subject to purchase under the warrant will become exercisable in quarterly amounts depending on the average outstanding balance of the DOE Loan Facility during the prior quarter. The warrant may be exercised until December 15, 2023. If we prepay the DOE Loan Facility in part or in full, the total amount of shares exercisable under the warrant will be reduced. Since the number of shares of common stock ultimately issuable under the warrant will vary, this warrant will be carried at its estimated fair value with changes in its fair value reflected in other expense, net, until its expiration or vesting. Our ability to prepay the DOE Loan Facility and consequently, the number of shares ultimately issuable under the DOE warrant, was determined to represent an embedded derivative. This embedded derivative is inherently valued and accounted for as part of the warrant. 

Since the number of shares ultimately issuable under the DOE warrants will vary depending on the average outstanding balance of the loan during the contractual vesting period, and decisions to prepay would be influenced by our future stock price as well as the interest rates on our loans in relation to market interest rates, we measured the fair value of the DOE warrant using a Monte Carlo simulation approach. The Monte Carlo approach simulates various scenarios and captures the optimal decisions to be made between prepaying the DOE loan and the cancellation of the DOE warrant over the expected term of the DOE Loan Facility of 13 years. For the purposes of the simulation, the optimal decision represents the scenario with the lowest economic cost to us. The total warrant value would then be calculated as the average warrant payoff across all simulated paths discounted to our valuation date. 

The significant assumptions that we use in the valuation of the DOE warrant include similar assumptions used in the valuation of otherwise featureless stock warrants at various simulated stock prices, as well as the interest rate differential between the interest rates under our DOE Loan Facility and market interest rates for companies comparable to us. The estimated value of our stock warrant requires us to use a Black-Scholes 

&#160; 

option-pricing model, which incorporates several assumptions that are subject to significant management judgment as is the case for stock-based compensation discussed above. The differential between the interest rates under our DOE Loan Facility and market interest rates is derived from the credit spread data of several unrelated public companies within industries related to our business. As the average simulated value of our stock warrant increases relative to the credit spread of our comparator companies, the fair value of our DOE warrant decreases since the economic cost of prepaying our outstanding loans under the DOE Loan Facility and replacing the funds with market interest rate debt, would be lower than the economic cost associated with the dilution caused by the vesting of warrants. Similarly, as the credit spread of our comparator companies increases relative to the average simulated value of our stock warrant, the fair value of our DOE warrant increases since the economic cost associated with prepaying our outstanding loans under the DOE Loan Facility and replacing the funds with market interest rate debt is higher than the economic cost associated with the dilution caused by the vesting of warrants, and therefore, we would not prepay our outstanding DOE debt and we would allow a higher number of warrants to vest. Prior to completion of our IPO, the fair value of the DOE warrant was included within the convertible preferred stock warrant liability on the consolidated balance sheet. Upon the completion of our IPO on July 2, 2010, this warrant was reclassified on our consolidated balance sheet from convertible preferred stock warrant liability to common stock warrant liability. The DOE warrant will continue to be recorded at its estimated fair value with changes in the fair value reflected in other expense, net, as the number of common stock ultimately issuable under the warrant is variable until its expiration or vesting. The relative movements in our stock price as compared to the credit spread of our comparator companies will result in fair value changes being recorded in other expense, net, in future periods which may be significant. 

Excluding the warrant issued to the DOE in January 2010, we have estimated the fair value of our convertible preferred stock warrants at the respective balance sheet dates using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model which used several assumptions that are subject to significant management judgment as is the case for stock-based compensation as discussed above. Upon the completion of our IPO in July 2010, these convertible preferred stock warrants outstanding as of June 30, 2010, were net exercised and the related convertible preferred stock warrant liability was settled. 

Income Taxes 

We record our provision for income taxes in our consolidated statements of operations by estimating our taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. We estimate our actual current tax exposure together with assessing temporary differences arising from differing treatment of items recognized for financial reporting versus tax return purposes. In general, deferred tax assets represent future tax benefits to be received when certain expenses previously recognized in our consolidated statements of operations become deductible expenses under applicable income tax laws, or loss or credit carryforwards are utilized. Valuation allowances are recorded when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. 

Significant management judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against our net deferred tax assets. We make these estimates and judgments about our future taxable income that are based on assumptions that are consistent with our future plans. As of December 31, 2011, we had recorded a full valuation allowance on our net deferred tax assets because we expect that it is more likely than not that our deferred tax assets will not be realized in the foreseeable future. Should the actual amounts differ from our estimates, the amount of our valuation allowance could be materially impacted. 

Furthermore, significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions. In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax settlement is uncertain. As a result, we recognize the effect of this uncertainty on our tax attributes based on our estimates of the eventual outcome. These effects are recognized when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are supportable, we believe that it is more likely than not that those positions may not be fully sustained upon review by tax authorities. We are required to file income tax returns in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, 

&#160; 

which requires us to interpret the applicable tax laws and regulations in effect in such jurisdictions. Such returns are subject to audit by the various federal, state and foreign taxing authorities, who may disagree with respect to our tax positions. We believe that our accounting consideration is adequate for all open audit years based on our assessment of many factors, including past experience and interpretations of tax law. We review and update our estimates in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit, the lapse of a statute of limitations or a material change in estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters differs from our expectations, such differences may impact income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made. The eventual impact on our income tax expense depends in part if we still have a valuation allowance recorded against our deferred tax assets in the period that such determination is made. 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

In June 2011, the FASB issued an accounting standard update, which revises the manner in which companies present comprehensive income in their financial statements. The new guidance removes the presentation options and requires entities to report components of comprehensive income in either (1) a continuous statement of comprehensive income or (2) two separate but consecutive statements. In December 2011, the FASB further amended its guidance to defer changes related to the presentation of reclassification adjustments indefinitely. The guidance (other than the portion regarding the presentation of reclassification adjustments which, as noted above, has been deferred indefinitely) is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2011. Early adoption is permitted. We anticipate adopting the guidance in fiscal 2012. We do not expect the adoption of the guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 

In January 2010, the FASB issued updated guidance related to fair value measurements and disclosures which requires a reporting entity to disclose separately the amounts of significant transfers in and out of Level I and Level II fair value measurements and to describe the reasons for the transfers. In addition, in the reconciliation of fair value measurements using Level III inputs, a reporting entity will be required to disclose information about purchases, sales, issuances and settlements on a gross rather than on a net basis. The updated guidance will also require fair value disclosures for each class of assets and liabilities and disclosures about the valuation techniques and inputs used to measure fair value for both recurring and non-recurring Level II and Level III fair value measurements. The adoption of this updated guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 

&#160; 

Results of Operations 

The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of operations data for the periods presented (in thousands, except per share data): 

&#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#160; Year Ended December 31, &#160; &#160; &#160; 2011 &#160; &#160; 2010 &#160; &#160; 2009 &#160; Revenues 

&#160; &#160; &#160; Automotive sales 

&#160; $ 148,568 &#160; &#160; $ 97,078 &#160; &#160; $ 111,943 &#160; Development services 

&#160; &#160; 55,674 &#160; &#160; &#160; 19,666 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; Total revenues 

&#160; &#160; 204,242 &#160; &#160; &#160; 116,744 &#160; &#160; &#160; 111,943 &#160; Cost of revenues 

&#160; &#160; &#160; Automotive sales 

&#160; &#160; 115,482 &#160; &#160; &#160; 79,982 &#160; &#160; &#160; 102,408 &#160; Development services 

&#160; &#160; 27,165 &#160; &#160; &#160; 6,031 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; Total cost of revenues 

&#160; &#160; 142,647 &#160; &#160; &#160; 86,013 &#160; &#160; &#160; 102,408 &#160; Gross profit 

&#160; &#160; 61,595 &#160; &#160; &#160; 30,731 &#160; &#160; &#160; 9,535 &#160; Operating expenses 

&#160; &#160; &#160; Research and development (net of development compensation of $23,249 for the year ended December 31, 2009) 

&#160; &#160; 208,981 &#160; &#160; &#160; 92,996 &#160; &#160; &#160; 19,282 &#160; Selling, general and administrative 

&#160; &#160; 104,102 &#160; &#160; &#160; 84,573 &#160; &#160; &#160; 42,150 &#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; Total operating expenses 

&#160; &#160; 313,083 &#160; &#160; &#160; 177,569 &#160; &#160; &#160; 61,432 &#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; Loss from operations 

&#160; &#160; (251,488 ) &#160; &#160; (146,838 ) &#160; &#160; (51,897 ) Interest income 

&#160; &#160; 255 &#160; &#160; &#160; 258 &#160; &#160; &#160; 159 &#160; Interest expense 

&#160; &#160; (43 ) &#160; &#160; (992 ) &#160; &#160; (2,531 ) Other expense, net 

&#160; &#160; (2,646 ) &#160; &#160; (6,583 ) &#160; &#160; (1,445 ) &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; Loss before income taxes 

&#160; &#160; (253,922 ) &#160; &#160; (154,155 ) &#160; &#160; (55,714 ) Provision for income taxes 

&#160; &#160; 489 &#160; &#160; &#160; 173 &#160; &#160; &#160; 26 &#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; Net loss 

&#160; $ (254,411 ) &#160; $ (154,328 ) &#160; $ (55,740 ) &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; ##TABLE_END Revenues 

Automotive Sales 

Automotive sales, which include vehicle, options and related sales, and powertrain component and related sales, consisted of the following for the periods presented (in thousands): 

&#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#160; Year Ended December 31, &#160; &#160; &#160; 2011 &#160; &#160; 2010 &#160; &#160; 2009 &#160; Vehicle, options and related sales 

&#160; $ 101,708 &#160; &#160; $ 75,459 &#160; &#160; $ 111,555 &#160; Powertrain component and related sales 

&#160; &#160; 46,860 &#160; &#160; &#160; 21,619 &#160; &#160; &#160; 388 &#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; Total automotive sales 

&#160; $ 148,568 &#160; &#160; $ 97,078 &#160; &#160; $ 111,943 &#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; ##TABLE_END Automotive sales for the year ended December 31, 2011 were $148.6 million, an increase from $97.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Vehicle, options and related sales represent sales of the Tesla Roadster, including vehicle options, accessories and destination charges, vehicle service and sales of zero emission vehicle credits. Powertrain component and related sales represent the sales of electric vehicle powertrain components, such as battery packs and battery chargers, to other manufacturers. 

Vehicle, options and related sales for the year ended December 31, 2011 were $101.7 million, an increase from $75.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The increase in vehicle, options and related sales was primarily attributable to an increase in the number of Tesla Roadsters that we sold, particularly in North America 

&#160; 

and Asia, coupled with slightly higher average selling prices. Under our supply agreement with Lotus, we have built 2,500 Roadster gliders. We plan to sell our remaining Tesla Roadsters primarily in Europe and Asia during 2012 until our inventory is depleted. 

In February 2010, we began offering a leasing program to qualified customers in the United States for the Tesla Roadster. Through our wholly owned subsidiary, qualifying customers are permitted to lease the Tesla Roadster for 36 months, after which time they have the option of either returning the vehicle to us or purchasing it for a pre-determined residual value. We account for these leasing transactions as operating leases and accordingly, we recognize leasing revenues on a straight-line basis over the term of the individual leases. Lease revenues are recorded in vehicle, options and related sales within automotive sales revenue and for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, we recognized $3.0 million and $0.8 million, respectively. During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, approximately 6% and 14% of the vehicles delivered during those years were under operating leases. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had deferred revenues of $0.8 million and $1.1 million of down payments which will be recognized over the term of the individual leases, respectively. 

Powertrain component and related sales for the year ended December 31, 2011 were $46.9 million, an increase from $21.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The increase in powertrain component and related sales was primarily due to significant shipments of battery packs and chargers to Daimler. We began delivering battery packs and chargers for the Daimler Smart fortwo EV program at the end of 2009, and for the Daimler A-Class EV program late in the fourth quarter of 2010. Production for both the Smart fortwo and A-Class EV programs was completed as of December 31, 2011. 

Automotive sales for the year ended December 31, 2010 were $97.1 million, a decrease from $111.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Vehicle, options and related sales for the year ended December 31, 2010 were $75.5 million, a decrease from $111.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. 

During the first three quarters of 2009, we continued to fulfill reservations for the Tesla Roadster and we had made a significant effort to increase our production capacity in order to accelerate deliveries to customers who had been on our waitlist for a significant amount of time. As a result, a significant portion of the revenue recognized during the first three quarters of 2009 came from fulfilling reservations placed prior to 2009. Beginning with the fourth quarter of 2009, sales of the Tesla Roadster began more closely approximating the level of orders placed during the quarter. Consequently, the comparison of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010 versus the year ended December 31, 2009 may not be meaningful. Similarly, ZEV credit sales which are included in vehicle, options and related sales, were higher during the year ended December 31, 2009 as the fulfillment of a significant number of reservations allowed us to sell a larger number of ZEV credits. The year over year decrease in vehicle deliveries was partially offset by higher selling prices from an expanded offering of vehicle options to our customers as well as higher average selling prices outside of the United States. 

Powertrain component and related sales for the year ended December 31, 2010 were $21.6 million, compared to $0.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we were selected by Daimler to supply it with battery packs and chargers to support a trial of the Smart fortwo EV program in a least five European cities. We began delivering and recognizing revenue for these production battery packs and chargers at the end of 2009. 

Prior to 2010, most of our revenues had been generated through sales of our vehicles in the United States and we had no revenues from sales outside of the United States prior to the third quarter of 2009. Our international sales commenced with the launch of the Tesla Roadster in Europe in July 2009 and since then, we have recognized revenue from sales of the Tesla Roadster in additional countries including Canada, Japan and Hong Kong. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, 49%, 55% and 19% of our revenue from vehicle, options and related sales, respectively, were derived outside of the United States. For the same periods, all of our powertrain component and related sales were derived outside of the United States. 

&#160; 

Development Services 

Development services represent arrangements where we develop electric vehicle powertrain components for other automobile manufacturers, including the design and development of battery packs and chargers to meet customer&#146;s specifications. 

Development services revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $55.7 million, an increase from $19.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Beginning in the first quarter of 2010, we started entering into development services arrangements with the expectation that our development services would constitute a viable revenue-generating activity. We began recognizing development services revenue during the first quarter of 2010 with the development and delivery of modular battery packs for Freightliner Custom Chassis Corporation (Freightliner), an affiliate of Daimler. These battery packs were to be used in electric delivery vans in a limited number of Freightliner&#146;s customer trials. Prior to 2010, compensation that we had received from our first development arrangement with Daimler for battery packs and chargers for its Smart fortwo EV program, was recorded as an offset to research and development expenses. This early arrangement was motivated primarily by the opportunity to engage Daimler and at the same time, jointly progress our own research and development activities with the associated development compensation. 

During the first quarter of 2010, Daimler also engaged us to assist with the development and production of a battery pack and charger for a pilot fleet of its A-Class electric vehicles to be introduced in Europe during 2011. We began providing development services for this program during the first quarter of 2010 and had received an aggregate of $5.5 million in payments; however, as we had not executed a final agreement related to this program as of March 31, 2010, we deferred the $5.5 million of payments that had been received from Daimler to that point. In May 2010, we executed a final agreement under which Daimler would make additional payments to us for the successful completion of certain development milestones and the delivery of prototype samples. As of December 31, 2010, we had completed our deliverables under this agreement and for the year ended December 31, 2010, we recognized $14.4 million in development services revenue. 

In July 2010, we entered into an agreement with Toyota to initiate development of an electric powertrain for the Toyota RAV4 EV. Under this Phase 0 development agreement, prototypes would be made by us by combining the Toyota RAV4 model with a Tesla electric powertrain. Through June 30, 2011, we had completed all prototype vehicles under the Phase 0 agreement and for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, we recognized $7.6 million and $1.3 million in development service revenue, respectively. 

In October 2010, we also entered into a Phase 1 contract services agreement with Toyota for the development of a validated powertrain system, including a battery pack, power electronics module, motor, gearbox and associated software, which will be integrated into an electric vehicle version of the Toyota RAV4. Pursuant to this agreement, Toyota would pay us up to $60.0 million for the anticipated development services to be provided by us over the expected term of our performance, including a $5.0 million upfront payment that we received upon the execution of the agreement. During the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, we completed various milestones and delivered samples under the Phase 1 agreement. Including the amortization of our upfront payment, for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, we recognized $47.4 million and $3.3 million in development services revenue, respectively, under the Phase 1 agreement. We expect that the Phase 1 agreement, and the associated development services revenues, will be completed by early 2012. 

We intend to grow our development services revenue over time by establishing additional commercial arrangements with other automobile manufacturers and by looking for new development opportunities with existing strategic partners. 

Additionally, we expect our development services revenue may fluctuate in future periods based on the timing of our delivery of milestones and samples, as well as the timing of meeting revenue recognition criteria. 

&#160; 

Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit 

Cost of revenues includes cost of automotive sales and costs related to our development services. Cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $142.6 million, an increase from $86.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The increase in cost of automotive sales for the year ended December 31, 2011 was driven primarily by an increase in the number of vehicles that we sold and the increased shipments of battery packs and chargers to Daimler. We began delivering battery packs and chargers for the Daimler Smart fortwo EV program at the end of 2009 and for the Daimler A-Class EV program at the end of 2010. Cost of development services includes engineering support and testing, direct parts, material and labor costs, manufacturing overhead, including amortized tooling costs, shipping and logistic costs and other development expenses that we incur in the performance of our services under development agreements. The increase in cost of development services was driven primarily by our activities for the Toyota RAV4 EV program which began in the second half of 2010. 

Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $61.6 million, an increase from $30.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The increase was driven primarily by higher sales of the Tesla Roadster coupled with higher average selling prices and ongoing cost improvement program on the Roadster, increased shipments of battery packs and chargers to Daimler, as well as gross profit from our development services activities which we expanded in the latter half of 2010 with the Toyota RAV4 EV program. 

Cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $86.0 million, a decrease from $102.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in cost of revenues was driven primarily by the significant number of vehicles delivered during the first three quarters of 2009 from fulfilling customer reservations placed prior to 2009. The decrease in cost of revenues from automotive sales for the year ended December 31, 2010 was partially offset by the increase in cost of revenues from our development services activities. 

Cost of development services includes engineering support and testing, direct parts, material and labor costs, manufacturing overhead, including amortized tooling costs, shipping and logistic costs and other development expenses that we incur in the performance of our services under development agreements. During the quarter ended March 31, 2010, Daimler engaged us to assist with the development and production of a battery pack and charger for a pilot fleet of its A-Class electric vehicles to be introduced in Europe during 2011. As of March 31, 2010, a development agreement had yet to be finalized and as such, the related development services costs of $0.5 million that we incurred during the quarter ended March 31, 2010 were expensed in research and development. In May 2010, we finalized the agreement and began recording the costs related to this program in cost of revenues. 

Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $30.7 million, an increase from $9.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase was driven primarily by the gross profit contributed by our development services revenues which we began to recognize in 2010; an expanded offering of vehicle options to our customers; the continued launch of the Tesla Roadster internationally, where in certain markets, we have experienced higher selling prices; and cost improvements associated with the model changeover from the Tesla Roadster to the Tesla Roadster 2 during the second half of 2009. Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2010 was also favorably impacted by the fact that certain of the A-Class development services revenue that we recognized during the year ended December 31, 2010 did not have any corresponding cost of revenues, since these costs were recorded in research and development expenses prior to us finalizing the development agreement in May 2010. 

We expect our development services revenue may fluctuate in future periods based on the timing of cash receipts as compared to the timing of meeting revenue recognition criteria. This may cause our gross profit and gross margin to be similarly impacted. 

Research and Development Expenses 

Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our teams in engineering and research, supply chain, quality, manufacturing engineering and manufacturing test organizations, prototyping 

&#160; 

expense, contract and professional services and amortized equipment expense. Overhead costs related to the Tesla Factory prior to the start of production of Model S are also included in research and development expenses. Also included in research and development expenses are development services costs that we incur, if any, prior to the finalization of agreements with our development services customers as reaching a final agreement and revenue recognition is not assured. Development services costs incurred after the finalization of an agreement are recorded in cost of revenues. 

Research and development expenses for the year ended December 31, 2011 were $209.0 million, an increase from $93.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The $116.0 million increase in research and development expenses during the year ended December 31, 2011 consisted primarily of a $38.1 million increase in materials and prototyping expenses primarily to support our Model S alpha and beta builds, overhead costs related to the Tesla Factory, powertrain development activities, a $30.9 million increase in costs related to Model S and Model X engineering, design and testing activities incurred by our suppliers, a $30.4 million increase in employee compensation expenses from higher headcount, a $9.7 million increase in stock-based compensation expense related to a larger number of outstanding equity awards and generally an increasing common stock valuation applied to new grants, and a $7.0 million increase in office, information technology and facilities-related costs to support the growth of our business. 

Research and development expenses for the year ended December 31, 2010 were $93.0 million, an increase from $19.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Research and development expenses during the year ended December 31, 2009 included $23.2 million in Daimler Smart fortwo EV development compensation which was recorded as an offset to research and development expenses. The $73.7 million increase in research and development expenses during the year ended December 31, 2010 consisted primarily of a $25.0 million increase in employee cash and stock-based compensation expenses primarily associated with significantly higher headcount to support our Model S and powertrain development activities, the $23.2 million Daimler development compensation offset recognized during the year ended December 31, 2009, a $10.5 million increase in materials and prototyping expenses primarily to support our Model S alpha build as well as powertrain development activities, a $10.7 million increase in professional and outside services costs related to Model S engineering, design and testing activities, and a $1.6 million increase in office, information technology and facilities-related costs to support the growth of our business, including our transition to our Palo Alto headquarters. 

During the first quarter of 2010, Daimler engaged us to assist with the development and production of a battery pack and charger for a pilot fleet of its A-Class electric vehicles to be introduced in Europe during 2011. As of March 31, 2010, a development agreement had yet to be finalized and as such, the related development services costs of $0.5 million that we incurred during the quarter ended March 31, 2010 were expensed in research and development. In May 2010, we finalized the agreement and began recording the costs associated with this program in cost of revenues. 

We have significantly increased our research and development efforts for Model S, which has resulted in an increase in our research and development expenses. We anticipate that our research and development expenses will rise moderately as we incur additional costs to further develop Model S, to develop Model X and to operate our Tesla Factory in Fremont, California prior to the start of Model S production. 

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 

Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel and facilities costs related to our Tesla stores, marketing, sales, executive, finance, human resources, information technology and legal organizations, as well as litigation settlements and fees for professional and contract services. 

Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2011 were $104.1 million, an increase from $84.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The $19.5 million increase in our selling, general and administrative expenses during the year ended December 31, 2011 consisted primarily of a 

&#160; 

$12.3 million increase in employee compensation expenses related to higher sales and marketing headcount to support sales activities worldwide and higher general and administrative headcount to support the expansion of the business, a $4.1 million increase in office, information technology and facilities-related costs to support the growth of our business, a $2.4 million increase in professional and outside services costs, and a $1.7 million increase in costs principally related to our Tesla store and gallery openings. The increase is also attributable to a $1.0 million increase in stock-based compensation expense related to a larger number of outstanding equity awards and generally an increasing common stock valuation applied to new grants. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2011 was partially offset by an additional stock-based compensation charge of $2.4 million recognized during the year ended December 31, 2010, which reflected a correction of stock-based compensation expense that should have been recorded during the year ended December 31, 2009. 

Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2010 were $84.6 million, an increase from $42.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The $42.4 million increase in our selling, general and administrative expenses during the year ended December 31, 2010 consisted primarily of a $15.8 million increase in stock-based compensation expense related to a larger number of outstanding equity awards, expense related to performance-based awards, an increasing common stock valuation applied to new grants made in 2010, and an additional stock-based compensation charge of $2.4 million which reflected a correction of stock-based compensation expense that should have been recorded during the year ended December 31, 2009; a $13.4 million increase in employee cash compensation expenses related to higher sales and marketing headcount to support a larger number of stores in the United States and Europe and higher general and administrative headcount to support the expansion of the business; a $7.1 million increase in office, information technology and facilities-related costs to support the growth of our business, including the opening of new stores and service locations and our transition to our Palo Alto headquarters; a $3.2 million increase in travel and expenses related to our sales and marketing activities; and a $1.0 million increase in professional services costs related to ongoing trademark and patent work, recruiting, as well as general corporate development activities. 

We expect selling, general and administrative expenses to increase in future periods as we continue to grow and expand our operations, increase our sales and marketing activities to handle our expanding market presence and prepare for the planned Model S commercial launch by July 2012, and as we support the requirements of being a public company. We plan to open additional stores and service centers during 2012, mostly in the United States, and some of these stores will replace existing stores, which we may continue to use as service locations. 

Interest Expense 

Our interest expense is primarily due to our loans under the DOE Loan Facility which we began accessing in 2010. Although interest expense will increase as we continue to draw down on the DOE Loan Facility to fund our Model S and powertrain activities, we expect to capitalize this interest to construction in progress until the start of Model S production. During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, we capitalized $5.1 million and $0.8 million, respectively, of interest expense to construction in progress. 

Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $1.0 million, a decrease from $2.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Interest expense during the year ended December 31, 2009 was primarily related to our convertible notes which were converted into shares of our Series E convertible preferred stock in May 2009, while interest expense during the year ended December 31, 2010 was primarily due to our loans under the DOE Loan Facility which we began accessing in 2010. 

Other Expense, Net 

Other expense, net consists primarily of the change in the fair value of our warrant liabilities and transaction gains and losses on our foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities. We expect our transaction gains and losses will vary depending upon movements in the underlying exchange rates. Income or charges resulting from 

&#160; 

the change in the fair value of our convertible preferred stock warrant liability, excluding the DOE warrant liability, was eliminated after July 2, 2010, as these warrants were net exercised at the completion of our IPO. The DOE convertible preferred stock warrant which we issued in January 2010, became a common stock warrant on July 2, 2010 and is carried at its estimated fair value with changes in its fair value continuing to be reflected in other expense, net, until its expiration or vesting. 

Other expense, net, for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $2.6 million, a decrease from other expense, net, of $6.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The decrease in expense for the year ended December 31, 2011 was primarily due to the elimination of warrant liabilities, excluding the DOE warrant liability, upon the completion of our IPO in July 2010. 

Other expense, net, for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $6.6 million, an increase in expense compared to other expense, net, of $1.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase in expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 was primarily due to the fair value changes in our warrant liabilities as well as the liability related to common stock warrants to certain of our stockholders which we issued in May 2010, both of which increased significantly in conjunction with the increase in our common stock valuation. 

Provision for Income Taxes 

Our provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $0.5 million, an increase from $0.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The increase was due primarily to the increase in taxable income in our international jurisdictions. 

Our provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $0.2 million, an increase from $26,000 for the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase was due primarily to the launch of the Tesla Roadster in Europe in July 2009 and the ensuing increase in taxable income in our international jurisdictions. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Since inception and through the year ended December 31, 2011, we had accumulated net operating losses of $669.4 million and have used $445.0 million of cash in operations. As of December 31, 2011, we had $492.7 million in principal sources of liquidity available from our cash and cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities, cash held in our dedicated DOE account and the remaining amounts available under the DOE Loan Facility. This includes our cash and cash equivalents in the amount of $255.3 million which included investments in money market funds, our short-term marketable securities in the amount of $25.1 million, cash of $23.5 million deposited in a dedicated DOE account in accordance with the requirements of our DOE Loan Facility, and approximately $188.8 million available under the DOE Loan Facility, which is primarily intended to cover spending related to the development of Model S and our powertrain activities. Other sources of cash also include cash from the sales of the Tesla Roadster, cash from the provision of development services, sales of powertrain components and refundable reservation payments for our Model S. 

We expect that our current sources of liquidity, including cash, cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities, cash held in our dedicated DOE account and the remaining amounts available under the DOE Loan Facility, together with our anticipated cash from operating activities will provide us adequate liquidity until we reach profitability in 2013. This capital will fund our ongoing operations, continue research and development projects, establish sales and service centers, improve infrastructure such as expanded battery pack assembly facilities, and to make the investments in tooling and manufacturing capital required to introduce Model S and to continue development of Model X. The acceleration of the development of future vehicles, investments in new technologies, increased in-sourcing of manufacturing capabilities, investments to expand our powertrain activities or further expand our sales and service network, may require us to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-related or debt securities or through obtaining credit. We may also choose to opportunistically raise additional funds if market conditions are favorable. We cannot be certain that additional funds will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. 

&#160; 

DOE Loan Facility 

On January 20, 2010, we entered into a loan facility with the Federal Financing Bank (FFB), and the DOE, pursuant to the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing (ATVM) Incentive Program (such loan facility, including amendments thereto, the DOE Loan Facility). Under the DOE Loan Facility, the FFB has made available to us two multi-draw term loan facilities in an aggregate principal amount of up to $465.0 million. Up to an aggregate principal amount of $101.2 million will be made available under the first term loan facility to finance up to 80% of the costs eligible for funding for the powertrain engineering and the build out of a facility to design and manufacture lithium-ion battery packs, electric motors and electric components (the Powertrain facility). Up to an aggregate principal amount of $363.9 million will be made available under the second term loan facility to finance up to 80% of the costs eligible for funding for the development of, and to build out the manufacturing facility for, our Model S sedan (the Model S facility). Under the DOE Loan Facility, we are responsible for the remaining 20% of the costs eligible for funding under the ATVM Program for the projects as well as any cost overruns for each project. 

Our DOE Loan Facility draw-downs were as follows (in thousands): 

&#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#160; Loan Facility Available for Future Draw-downs &#160; &#160; Interest rates &#160; Beginning Balance, January 20, 2010 

&#160; $ 465,048 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Draw-downs received during the three months ended March 31, 2010 

&#160; &#160; (29,920 ) &#160; &#160; 2.9% - 3.4 % Draw-downs received during the three months ended June 30, 2010 

&#160; &#160; (15,499 ) &#160; &#160; 2.5% - 3.4 % Draw-downs received during the three months ended September 30, 2010 

&#160; &#160; (11,138 ) &#160; &#160; 1.7% - 2.6 % Draw-downs received during the three months ended December 31, 2010 

&#160; &#160; (15,271 ) &#160; &#160; 1.7% - 2.8 % &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; Remaining Balance, December 31, 2010 

&#160; &#160; 393,220 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; Draw-downs received during the three months ended March 31, 2011 

&#160; &#160; (30,656 ) &#160; &#160; 2.1% - 3.0 % Draw-downs received during the three months ended June 30, 2011 

&#160; &#160; (31,693 ) &#160; &#160; 1.8% - 2.7 % Draw-downs received during the three months ended September 30, 2011 

&#160; &#160; (90,822 ) &#160; &#160; 1.0% - 1.4 % Draw-downs received during the three months ended December 31, 2011 

&#160; &#160; (51,252 ) &#160; &#160; 1.0% - 1.5 % &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; Remaining Balance, December 31, 2011 

&#160; $ 188,797 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; ##TABLE_END In February 2012, we received additional loans under the DOE Loan Facility of $14.4 million at interest rates ranging from 0.9% to 1.4%. 

We have agreed that, in connection with the sale of our stock in any follow-on equity offering, at least 50% of the net offering proceeds will be received by us. Offering proceeds may not be used to pay bonuses or other compensation to officers, directors, employees or consultants in excess of the amounts contemplated by our business plan approved by the DOE. 

Upon completion of our IPO in 2010, we set aside $100 million to fund a separate dedicated account under our DOE Loan Facility. This dedicated account is used by us to fund any cost overruns for our powertrain and Tesla Factory projects and is used as a mechanism to defer advances under the DOE Loan Facility. This will not affect our ability to draw down the full amount of the DOE loans, but will require us to use the dedicated account 

&#160; 

to fund certain project costs upfront, which costs may then be reimbursed by loans under the DOE Loan Facility once the dedicated account is depleted, or as part of the final advance for the applicable project. We will be then required to deposit a portion of these reimbursements into the dedicated account, in an amount equal to up to 30% of the remaining project costs for the applicable project, and these amounts may similarly be used by us to fund project costs and cost overruns and will similarly be eligible for reimbursement by the draw-down of additional loans under the DOE Loan Facility once used in full, or as part of the final advance for the applicable project. Depending on the timing and magnitude of our draw-downs and the funding requirements of the dedicated account, the balance of the dedicated account will fluctuate throughout the period in which we plan to make draw-downs under the DOE Loan Facility. Upon completion of our final advance under the DOE Loan Facility, the balance in the dedicated account will be fully transferred out of the dedicated account. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, $23.5 million and $73.6 million were held in the dedicated account, respectively. 

For more information on the DOE Loan Facility, see Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

Initial Public Offering and Toyota Concurrent Private Placement 

On June 28, 2010, our registration statement on Form S-1 relating to our IPO was declared effective by the SEC. The IPO closed on July 2, 2010, at which time we sold 11,880,600 shares of our common stock and received cash proceeds of $188.8 million from this transaction, net of underwriting discounts and commissions. Additionally, we incurred offering costs of $4.4 million related to the IPO. 

Concurrent with the closing of our IPO, we sold 2,941,176 shares of our common stock to Toyota in a private placement transaction for aggregate proceeds of $50.0 million. 

Panasonic Private Placement 

In November 2010, we entered into a common stock purchase agreement with an entity affiliated with Panasonic Corporation (Panasonic) pursuant to which we issued and sold an aggregate of 1,418,573 shares of our common stock for aggregate proceeds of $30.0 million. 

Follow-on Offering and Concurrent Private Placements 

In June 2011, we completed a follow-on offering of common stock in which we sold a total of 6,095,000 shares of our common stock and received cash proceeds of $172.7 million from this transaction, net of underwriting discounts. 

Concurrent with our follow-on offering, we also sold 1,416,000 shares of our common stock to Elon Musk, our Chief Executive Officer and cofounder, and 637,475 shares of our common stock to Blackstar Investco LLC, an affiliate of Daimler and received total cash proceeds of $59.1 million in the private placements. No underwriting discounts or commissions were paid in connection with these private placements. 

Leasing Activities 

In February 2010, we began offering a leasing program to qualified customers in the United States for the Tesla Roadster. Through our wholly owned subsidiary, qualifying customers are permitted to lease the Tesla Roadster for 36 months, after which time they have the option of either returning the vehicle to us or purchasing it for a pre-determined residual value. 

When compared to our sales of vehicles, our leasing activities will spread the cash inflows that we would otherwise receive upon the sale of a vehicle, over the lease term and final disposition of the leased vehicle. As such, our cash and working capital requirements will be directly impacted and if leasing volume increases significantly, the impact may be material. However, after taking into consideration our current and planned sources of operating cash, our ability to monitor and prospectively adjust our leasing activity, as well as our intent to collect nonrefundable deposits for leased vehicles that are manufactured to specification, we do not believe that our leasing operations materially adversely impact our ability to meet our commitments and obligations as they become due. As we will also be exposed to credit risk related to the timely collection of lease payments from our customers, we intend to utilize our credit approval and ongoing review processes in order to 

&#160; 

minimize any credit losses that could occur and which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We require deposits from customers electing a lease option for vehicles built to a customer&#146;s specifications on the same timeframe and under the same circumstances as from customers purchasing our vehicles outright. During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, approximately 6% and 14% of the vehicles delivered during these periods were under operating leases. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had deferred revenues of $0.8 million and $1.1 million of down payments which will be recognized over the term of the individual leases. Through December 31, 2011, our leasing activity has not had a significant adverse impact on our liquidity. 

Reservation Payments 

A source of our cash flows from operations has been through our receipt of reservation payments from our customers. Reservation payments consist of reservation payments that allow potential customers to hold a reservation for the future purchase of a Tesla Roadster, Model S or Model X. For our Tesla Roadsters manufactured to specification, our current purchase agreement requires the payment of an initial nonrefundable deposit which varies based on the country of purchase. For Model S and Model X, we require an initial refundable reservation payment of at least $5,000. For Tesla Roadsters purchased directly from our showrooms, no deposit is required. Prior to the second quarter of 2010, our reservation policy was to accept reservation payments from all customers who wished to purchase a Tesla Roadster and require full payment of the purchase price of the vehicle at the time the customer selected their vehicle specifications. During the second quarter of 2010, we changed our policy to require nonrefundable deposits for Tesla Roadsters manufactured to specification at the time a customer enters into a purchase agreement. However, we also occasionally accept reservation payments for the Tesla Roadster if a customer is interested in purchasing a vehicle but not yet prepared to select the vehicle specifications. For customers who have placed a reservation payment with us, the reservation payment becomes a nonrefundable deposit once the customer has selected the vehicle specifications and enters into a purchase agreement. The full payment of the purchase price of the vehicle is required only upon delivery of the vehicle to the customer. Reservation payments for a vehicle are recorded as a current liability when received. No later than upon the delivery of a vehicle, the reservation payments collected on a customer&#146;s account are applied against the total purchase price of the vehicle. 

Summary of Cash Flows 

&#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#160; Year Ended December 31, &#160; &#160; &#160; 2011 &#160; &#160; 2010 &#160; &#160; 2009 &#160; Net cash used in operating activities 

&#160; $ (114,364 ) &#160; $ (127,817 ) &#160; $ (80,825 ) Net cash used in investing activities 

&#160; &#160; (175,928 ) &#160; &#160; (180,297 ) &#160; &#160; (14,244 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 

&#160; &#160; 446,000 &#160; &#160; &#160; 338,045 &#160; &#160; &#160; 155,419 &#160; ##TABLE_END Cash Flows from Operating Activities 

We continue to experience negative cash flows from operations as we expand our business and build our infrastructure both in the United States and internationally. Our cash flows from operating activities are significantly affected by our cash investments to support the growth of our business in areas such as research and development and selling, general and administrative. Our operating cash flows are also affected by our working capital needs to support growth and fluctuations in inventory, personnel related expenditures, accounts payable and other current assets and liabilities. 

Net cash used in operating activities was $114.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. The largest component of our cash used during this period related to our net loss of $254.4 million, which included non-cash charges of $29.4 million related to stock-based compensation expense, $16.9 million related to depreciation and amortization and $2.8 million related to the fair value change in our warrant liability. Significant operating cash outflows were primarily related to $313.1 million of operating expenses, $142.6 million of cost of revenues and a $13.6 million increase in inventory and operating lease vehicles, partially offset by a $44.2 million increase in 

&#160; 

accounts payable and accrued liabilities, and a $2.6 million increase in other long-term liabilities. Inventory increased to meet our production requirements for the Tesla Roadster as we planned for the final production of the Tesla Roadster and powertrain component sales as well as leasing activities. The increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities was due to both the growth of our business and the timing of vendor payments. 

Significant operating cash inflows during the year ended December 31, 2011 were comprised primarily of automotive sales of $148.6 million, $55.7 million of development services revenue and a $61.0 million net increase in reservation payments, partially offset by a $2.8 million increase in accounts receivable and a $1.9 million decrease in deferred revenue. The increase in accounts receivable was related primarily to receivables from Toyota for shipments of powertrain components under the Toyota RAV4 EV Phase 1 contract services agreement and shipments of battery packs and chargers to Daimler under the Daimler Smart fortwo and A-Class EV programs. 

Net cash used in operating activities was $127.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2010. The largest component of our cash used during this period related to our net loss of $154.3 million, which included non-cash charges of $21.2 million related to stock-based compensation expense, $10.6 million related to depreciation and amortization and $5.0 million related to the fair value change in our warrant liabilities. Significant operating cash outflows were primarily related to $177.6 million of operating expenses, $86.0 million of cost of revenues, a $28.5 million increase in inventory and operating lease vehicles, and a $5.0 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets, partially offset by a $13.3 million increase in accrued liabilities and a $3.5 million increase in other long-term liabilities. Inventory increased to meet our production requirements for the Tesla Roadster and powertrain component sales while the increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets and accrued liabilities was due to both the growth of our business, as well as our increased manufacturing and Model S development activities. Operating lease vehicles increased with the introduction of our leasing program in 2010. Other long-term liabilities increased as a result of higher warranty liability from sales of the Tesla Roadster. 

Significant operating cash inflows during the year ended December 31, 2010 were derived primarily from automotive sales of $97.1 million, $19.7 million of development services revenue, a $4.8 million increase in deferred revenues and a $4.7 million increase in reservation payments, partially offset by a $3.2 million increase in accounts receivable. In October 2010, we entered into a Phase 1 contract services agreement with Toyota for the development of a validated powertrain system, including a battery pack, power electronics module, motor, gearbox and associated software, to be integrated into an electric vehicle version of the Toyota RAV4. Upon execution of the agreement, we received a $5.0 million upfront payment for which revenue is being recognized over the expected term of our performance. Deferred revenues also increased from our vehicle leasing activities as lease down-payments are recognized over the term of the operating leases. The increase in accounts receivable was related primarily to powertrain component sales in relation to Daimler&#146;s Smart fortwo EV program as well as $2.3 million receivable from Toyota for the achievement of the first milestone under the Phase 1 contract services agreement. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we received $10.4 million of net new reservation payments for Model S while reservation payments for the Tesla Roadster decreased by $5.7 million. 

Net cash used in operating activities was $80.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2009. The largest component of our cash used during this year was the $55.7 million net loss, which included non-cash charges of $6.9 million related to depreciation and amortization, $2.7 million related to interest on convertible notes and $1.4 million related to inventory write-downs, as well as a non-cash gain of $1.5 million from the extinguishment of convertible notes and warrants. Significant operating cash outflows were primarily related to $102.4 million of cost of revenues, $61.4 million of operating expenses, a $7.9 million increase in inventory and a $2.0 million increase in our prepaid expenses and other current assets, partially offset by a $3.4 million increase in accrued liabilities and a $0.9 million increase in accounts payable. Inventory increased to meet our production requirements while the increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets reflect a higher level of annual operating costs such as insurance, licenses and taxes from the growth of the business. The increases in accrued liabilities and accounts payable were also primarily due to the growth in our business. 

&#160; 

Significant operating cash inflows during the year ended December 31, 2009 were derived primarily from the sales of the Tesla Roadster as well as development compensation related to the Daimler development agreement. Cash inflows related to automotive sales activity were $88.5 million comprised of $111.9 million of automotive sales, partially offset by a $22.0 million decrease in refundable reservation payments and a $1.5 million decrease in deferred revenues. The decrease in the refundable reservation payments was due to the launch of the Tesla Roadster during the year ended December 31, 2008. As we continued to deliver the Tesla Roadster to our customers in 2009, we applied the related reservation payments to the respective customers&#146; purchase cost. Cash inflows from the Daimler development agreement were $13.2 million comprised primarily of $23.2 million of development compensation partially offset by a $10.0 million decrease in deferred development compensation. The decrease in deferred development compensation was the result of the amortization of deferred development compensation that we received during the year ended December 31, 2008. 

Cash Flows from Investing Activities 

Cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to capital expenditures to support our growth in operations, including investments in Model S manufacturing, as well as restricted cash that we must maintain in relation to our DOE Loan Facility, facility lease agreements, equipment financing, and certain vendor credit policies. 

Net cash used in investing activities was $175.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2011 primarily related to $197.9 million in purchases of capital equipment and $65.0 million in purchases of short-term marketable securities, partially offset by $50.1 million of net transfers out of our dedicated DOE account in accordance with the provisions of the DOE Loan Facility and $40.0 million from the maturity of short-term marketable securities. The increase in capital purchases was primarily due to significant development and construction activities at the Tesla Factory as well as purchases of Model S related manufacturing equipment and tooling. 

Net cash used in investing activities was $180.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2010 primarily related to capital purchases of $105.4 million and a net increase in restricted cash of $74.9 million. The increase in capital purchases was driven primarily by $65.2 million of payments made in relation to our purchase of our Tesla Factory located in Fremont, California from NUMMI, and certain manufacturing assets located thereon to be used for our Model S manufacturing, as well as $40.2 million primarily related to other Model S capital expenditures, our transition to and build out of our powertrain manufacturing facility and corporate headquarters in Palo Alto, California, and purchases of manufacturing equipment. Our purchase transactions with NUMMI were completed in October 2010. The increase in restricted cash was primarily related to $100.0 million of net proceeds from our IPO and concurrent Toyota private placement that we transferred to a dedicated account as required by our DOE Loan Facility, partially offset by $26.4 million that was transferred out of the dedicated account during the third and fourth quarters of 2010 in accordance with the provisions of the DOE Loan Facility. 

Net cash used in investing activities was $14.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2009 primarily related to capital purchases of $11.9 million and an increase in restricted cash of $2.4 million. The increase in restricted cash was primarily related to standard credit policies required by our online payment vendor and security deposits related to lease agreements and equipment financing. 

Cash Flows from Financing Activities 

We have financed our operations primarily with proceeds from issuances of convertible preferred stock and convertible notes, which provided us with aggregate net proceeds of $296.8 million on a cumulative basis through December 31, 2009, from loans under the DOE Loan Facility beginning in 2010, and more recently, from the net proceeds from our public offerings and private placements of common stock. 

Net cash provided by financing activities was $446.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2011 and was comprised primarily of $231.5 million received from our follow-on public offering and concurrent private 

&#160; 

placements completed in June 2011, $204.4 million received from our draw-downs under the DOE Loan Facility and $10.5 million received from the exercise of common stock options by employees and the purchase of common stock under our employee stock purchase plan. 

Cash provided by financing activities was $338.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2010 comprised primarily of $188.8 million in proceeds from our IPO, $71.8 million we received from our loans under the DOE Loan Facility, $50.0 million in proceeds from the Toyota private placement, $30.0 million in proceeds from the Panasonic private placement, partially offset by $3.7 million of issuance costs we incurred in relation to our DOE Loan Facility and our IPO. 

Cash provided by financing activities was $155.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2009 comprised primarily of $82.4 million in net proceeds from the issuance of Series E convertible preferred stock, $49.4 million in net proceeds from the issuance of Series E convertible preferred stock and $25.5 million in proceeds received from the issuance of convertible notes and warrants. 

Contractual Obligations 

The following table sets forth, as of December 31, 2011 certain significant cash obligations that will affect our future liquidity (in thousands): 

&#160;

##TABLE_START &#160; &#160; Year Ended December 31, &#160; &#160; &#160; Total &#160; &#160; 2012 &#160; &#160; 2013 &#160; &#160; 2014 &#160; &#160; 2015 &#160; &#160; 2016 &#160; &#160; 2017 and thereafter &#160; Operating lease obligations 

&#160; $ 56,768 &#160; &#160; $ 8,480 &#160; &#160; $ 8,489 &#160; &#160; $ 8,163 &#160; &#160; $ 7,330 &#160; &#160; $ 6,168 &#160; &#160; $ 18,138 &#160; Capital lease obligations 

&#160; &#160; 4,228 &#160; &#160; &#160; 1,416 &#160; &#160; &#160; 1,349 &#160; &#160; &#160; 974 &#160; &#160; &#160; 258 &#160; &#160; &#160; 231 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; Long-term debt 

&#160; &#160; 305,461 &#160; &#160; &#160; 13,368 &#160; &#160; &#160; 36,676 &#160; &#160; &#160; 36,064 &#160; &#160; &#160; 35,460 &#160; &#160; &#160; 34,853 &#160; &#160; &#160; 149,040 &#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; Total 

&#160; $ 366,457 &#160; &#160; $ 23,264 &#160; &#160; $ 46,514 &#160; &#160; $ 45,201 &#160; &#160; $ 43,048 &#160; &#160; $ 41,252 &#160; &#160; $ 167,178 &#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; ##TABLE_END In October 2010, we completed the purchase of our Tesla Factory located in Fremont, California from NUMMI. NUMMI has previously identified environmental conditions at the Fremont site which affect soil and groundwater, and is currently undertaking efforts to address these conditions. Although we have been advised by NUMMI that it has documented and managed the environmental issues, we cannot determine with certainty the potential costs to remediate any pre-existing contamination. Based on management&#146;s best estimate, we estimated the fair value of the environmental liabilities that we assumed to be $5.3 million, which is not reflected in the table above as the timing of any potential payments cannot be reasonably determined at this time. As NUMMI continues with its decommissioning activities and as we continue with our construction and operating activities, it is reasonably possible that our estimate of environmental liabilities may change materially. 

We have reached an agreement with NUMMI under which, over a ten year period, we will pay the first $15.0 million of any costs of any governmentally-required remediation activities for contamination that existed prior to the completion of the facility and land purchase for any known or unknown environmental conditions, and NUMMI has agreed to pay the next $15.0 million for such remediation activities. Our agreement provides, in part, that NUMMI will pay up to the first $15.0 million on our behalf if such expenses are incurred in the first four years of our agreement, subject to our reimbursement of such costs on the fourth anniversary date of the closing. 

On the ten-year anniversary of the closing or whenever $30.0 million has been spent on the remediation activities, whichever comes first, NUMMI&#146;s liability to us with respect to remediation activities ceases, and we are responsible for any and all environmental conditions at the Fremont site. At that point in time, we have agreed to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless NUMMI from all liability and we have released NUMMI for any known or unknown claims except for NUMMI&#146;s obligations for representations and warranties under the agreement. 

&#160; 

As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, we held reservation payments of $91.8 million and $30.8 million from potential customers, respectively, which are not reflected in the table above. As of December 31, 2011, we held reservation payments for undelivered Model S sedans in an aggregate amount of $90.0 million and payments for Tesla Roadsters in an aggregate amount of $1.8 million. As of December 31, 2010, we held reservation payments for undelivered Model S sedans in an aggregate amount of $28.3 million and payments for Tesla Roadsters in an aggregate amount of $2.5 million. In order to convert the reservation payments into revenue, we will need to sell vehicles to these customers. All reservation payments for Model S are fully refundable until such time that a customer enters into a purchase agreement. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

During the periods presented, we did not have relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. 

&#160;

##TABLE_START 

Instruction: 
According to the given information, 
1. Briefly describe the company overview and company's industry, using the structure: "Founded in xxxx, 'company name' is a xxxx that provides .....
2. Highlight core strengths and competitive advantages key products or services,
3. Include topics about end market (geography), major customers (blue chip or not), market share for market position section,
4. Identify current industry trends, opportunities, and challenges that influence the company's strategy,
5. Outline recent strategic initiatives such as product launches, acquisitions, or new partnerships, and describe the company's response to market conditions. 
Less than 300 words.


Instruction: Summarize the analysis, less than 130 words.