Resource: Resource: Company Name: Walt Disney Company (The)

Business summary:
 ITEM 1. Business 

The Walt Disney Company, together with the subsidiaries through which businesses are conducted (the Company), is a diversified worldwide entertainment company with operations in three segments: Entertainment, Sports and Experiences. 

The terms &#8220;Company&#8221;, &#8220;we&#8221;, &#8220;our&#8221; and &#8220;us&#8221; are used in this report to refer collectively to the parent company and the subsidiaries through which businesses are conducted. 

ENTERTAINMENT 

The Entertainment segment generally encompasses the Company&#8217;s non-sports focused global film and episodic content production and distribution activities. 

The lines of business within Entertainment along with their significant business activities include the following: 

&#8226; Linear Networks 

&#9702; Domestic: ABC Television Network (ABC Network); Disney, Freeform, FX and National Geographic (owned 73% by the Company) branded television channels; and eight owned ABC television stations 

&#9702; International: Disney, FX, National Geographic (owned 73% by the Company) and Star branded general entertainment television channels outside of the U.S. 

&#9702; A 50% equity investment in A+E Television Networks (A+E), which operates cable channels including A&#38;E, HISTORY and Lifetime 

&#8226; Direct-to-Consumer 

&#9702; Disney+: a global direct-to-consumer (DTC) service that primarily offers general entertainment and family programming 

&#9702; Disney+ Hotstar: a DTC service primarily in India that offers general entertainment, family and sports programming. 

&#9702; Hulu: a U.S. DTC service that offers general entertainment and family programming and a digital over-the-top (OTT) service that includes live linear streams of various cable and broadcast networks. See Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on Hulu ownership. 

&#8226; Content Sales/Licensing 

&#9702; Theatrical distribution 

&#9702; Sale/licensing of film and episodic content to television and video-on-demand (TV/VOD) services 

&#9702; Home entertainment distribution: electronic home video licenses, video-on-demand rentals and sales of DVD/Blu-ray discs 

&#9702; Intersegment allocation of revenues from the Experiences segment, which is meant to reflect royalties on consumer products merchandise licensing revenues generated on intellectual property (IP) created by the Entertainment segment 

&#9702; Staging and licensing of live entertainment events on Broadway and around the world (Stage Plays) 

&#9702; Music distribution 

&#9702; Post-production services by Industrial Light &#38; Magic and Skywalker Sound 

Entertainment also includes the following activities that are reported with Content Sales/Licensing: 

&#8226; National Geographic magazine and online business (owned 73% by the Company) 

&#8226; A 30% ownership interest in Tata Play Limited, which operates a direct-to-home satellite distribution platform in India 

The significant revenues of Entertainment are as follows: 

&#8226; Subscription fees - Fees charged to customers/subscribers for our DTC streaming services 

&#8226; Advertising - Sales of advertising time/space 

&#8226; Affiliate fees - Fees charged to multi-channel video programming distributors (i.e. cable, satellite, telecommunications and digital OTT service providers) (MVPDs) for the right to deliver our programming to their customers. Linear Networks also generates revenues from fees charged to television stations affiliated with ABC Network. 

&#8226; Theatrical distribution - Rentals from licensing our films to theaters 

&#8226; TV/VOD distribution - Licensing fees for the right to use our film and episodic content 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

&#8226; Home entertainment distribution - Electronic sales and rentals of film and episodic content through distributors and royalties from the licensing of physical distribution rights 

&#8226; Other revenue - Revenues from licensing our music, ticket sales from stage play performances, fees from licensing our IP for use in stage plays, sales of post-production services and the allocation of consumer products merchandise licensing revenues 

The significant expenses of Entertainment are as follows: 

&#8226; Operating expenses, consisting primarily of programming and production costs, technology support costs, operating labor and distribution costs. Programming and production costs include the following: 

&#9702; Amortization of capitalized production costs 

&#9702; Amortization of the costs of licensed programming rights 

&#9702; Subscriber-based fees for programming our Hulu Live service, including fees paid by Hulu to the Sports segment and other Entertainment segment businesses for the right to air their linear networks on Hulu Live 

&#9702; Production costs related to live programming (primarily news) 

&#9702; Participations and residual expenses 

&#9702; Fees paid to the Sports segment to program ESPN on ABC and certain sports content on Disney+ 

&#8226; Selling, general and administrative costs, including marketing costs 

&#8226; Depreciation and amortization 

Linear Networks 

The majority of Linear Networks revenue is derived from affiliate fees and advertising. The Company&#8217;s Linear Networks businesses provide programming under multi-year licensing agreements with MVPDs and/or affiliated television stations that are generally based on contractually specified rates on a per subscriber basis. The amounts that we can charge for our networks are largely dependent on the quality and quantity of programming that we can provide and the competitive market for programming services. The ability to sell advertising time and the rates received are primarily dependent on the size and nature of the audience that the network can deliver to the advertiser as well as overall advertiser demand. 

Domestic Linear Networks 

ABC Network 

ABC Network programming is aired in the primetime, daytime, late night, news and sports &#8220;dayparts&#8221;. Primetime programming includes scripted series, reality programming and a variety of movies and specials. ESPN programs the sports daypart on ABC Network, which is branded ESPN on ABC. ABC Network distributes programming to approximately 245 local affiliated television stations and to our eight owned television stations, which collectively reach almost 100% of U.S. television households. 

ABC Network produces a variety of unscripted series, primetime specials, news and daytime programming. 

Disney Channels 

Branded television channels include: Disney Channel; Disney Junior; and Disney XD (collectively Disney Channels). Disney Channels air programming 24 hours a day targeted to kids ages 2 to 14 and generally feature live-action comedy series, animated programming and preschool series as well as original movies and theatrical films. 

Freeform 

Freeform is a channel targeted to viewers ages 18 to 34 that airs original and licensed television series, films and holiday programming events. 

FX Channels 

Branded television channels include: FX; FXM; and FXX (collectively FX Channels), which air a mix of original and licensed television series and films. 

National Geographic Channels 

Branded television channels include: National Geographic; Nat Geo Wild; and Nat Geo Mundo (collectively National Geographic Channels). National Geographic Channels air programming in genres such as travel, adventure, wildlife, documentary, science and history. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

The number of subscribers (in millions) for the significant domestic branded channels are as follows: 

##TABLE_START Subscribers (1) 

Disney Channel 66 

Freeform 

55 FX 67 National Geographic 66 ##TABLE_END

(1) Based on Nielsen Media Research estimates as of September 2024. Estimates include traditional MVPD and the majority of digital OTT subscriber counts. 

Domestic Television Stations 

The Company owns eight television stations, six of which are located in the top ten television household markets in the U.S. Our television stations collectively reach approximately 20% of U.S. television households. 

The stations we own are as follows: ##TABLE_START TV Station Market Television Market 

Ranking (1) 

WABC New York, NY 1 KABC Los Angeles, CA 2 WLS Chicago, IL 3 WPVI Philadelphia, PA 4 KTRK Houston, TX 6 KGO San Francisco, CA 10 WTVD Raleigh-Durham, NC 22 KFSN Fresno, CA 52 ##TABLE_END

(1) Based on Nielsen Media Research, U.S. Television Household Estimates, January 1, 2024 

International Linear Networks 

International Linear Networks use content from the Company&#8217;s various studios, including library titles, as well as content acquired from third parties. The Company operates approximately 265 general entertainment and family channels outside the U.S. in approximately 40 languages and 175 countries/territories. 

General Entertainment 

General Entertainment channels include FX, National Geographic and Star branded channels, which air a variety of scripted, reality and documentary programming. As of September 2024, the estimated number of unique subscribers for our general entertainment channels, based on internal management reports, was approximately 240 million. 

Family 

Family channels include Disney Channel and Disney Junior, which air a variety of animated and live action original series and movies targeted to kids ages 2 to 14. As of September 2024, the estimated number of unique subscribers for our family channels, based on internal management reports, was approximately 200 million. 

Equity Investments 

The most significant equity investment at Linear Networks is A+E. The Company&#8217;s share of A+E&#8217;s financial results are reported as &#8220;Equity in the income of investees&#8221; in the Company&#8217;s Consolidated Statements of Income. 

A+E is owned 50% by the Company and 50% by Hearst. A+E operates a variety of cable channels, including: 

&#8226; A&#38;E &#8211; which offers entertainment programming including original reality and documentary programming 

&#8226; HISTORY &#8211; which offers original unscripted series and event-driven specials 

&#8226; Lifetime &#8211; which offers programming targeted to women 

The number of domestic subscribers, based on Nielsen Media Research estimates as of September 2024, are 58 million for each of A&#38;E, HISTORY and Lifetime and include traditional MVPD and the majority of digital OTT subscriber counts. A+E programming is available in approximately 200 countries and territories. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Direct-to-Consumer 

Disney+, Disney+ Hotstar and Hulu are subscription services that provide video streaming of the Company&#8217;s general entertainment and family programming and similar programming from third parties. Outside the U.S., Disney+ and Disney+ Hotstar also include international sports programming. The services are offered individually or in various bundles, which may include ESPN+ (see Sports segment discussion), to customers directly or through third-party distributors on mobile and internet connected devices. The majority of Direct-to-Consumer revenue is derived from subscription fees and advertising. 

Disney+ and Disney+ Hotstar 

Disney+ is a subscription-based DTC service with Disney, Pixar, Marvel, Star Wars and National Geographic branded programming, which are all top-level selections or &#8220;tiles&#8221; within the Disney+ interface. In the U.S., subscribers to both Disney+ and Hulu may access certain Hulu programming through a tile on Disney+. Outside the U.S., Disney+ includes a Star branded tile, which features general entertainment programming. In Latin America, Disney+ includes an ESPN branded tile, which features a variety of sports content including live events. The Company plans to launch an ESPN branded tile on Disney+ in the U.S. in early fiscal 2025. 

In certain Latin American countries prior to July 2024, we offered Disney+ as well as Star+, a standalone service with a variety of general entertainment and family content and live sports programming. At the end of June 2024, we merged these services into a single Disney+ product offering. 

As of September 28, 2024, the estimated number of paid Disney+ subscribers, based on internal management reports, was approximately 123 million. 

Disney+ Hotstar is a subscription-based DTC service available in India, Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand. Programming includes television shows, movies, sports and original series in approximately 10 languages, in addition to gaming and social features. Disney+ Hotstar has exclusive streaming rights to certain cricket programming. 

As of September 28, 2024, the estimated number of paid Disney+ Hotstar subscribers, based on internal management reports, was approximately 36 million. 

Disney+ and Disney+ Hotstar offer content from the Company&#8217;s various studios, including library titles, as well as content acquired from third parties. 

The majority of Disney+ and Disney+ Hotstar revenue is derived from subscription fees and, to a lesser extent, advertising. The Company offers an ad-supported Disney+ service in the U.S., Canada and select Latin American and European markets. 

Hulu 

Hulu is a domestic subscription-based DTC service with general entertainment content from the Company&#8217;s various studios as well as content licensed from third parties. Hulu&#8217;s revenue is derived from subscription fees and advertising. Hulu offers subscription video-on-demand (SVOD) services with or without advertising in addition to a digital OTT MVPD (Live TV) service. The Live TV service is available with either of Hulu&#8217;s SVOD services and includes live linear streams of various cable and broadcast networks. In addition, Hulu offers subscriptions to premium services such as Max, Cinemax, Starz and Paramount+ with Showtime, which can be added to the Hulu service. Certain programming from ABC Network, Freeform and FX Channels is also available on the Hulu SVOD service one day after the linear airing on these channels. As of September 28, 2024, the estimated number of paid Hulu subscribers, based on internal management reports, was approximately 52 million. 

Content Sales/Licensing and Other 

The majority of Content Sales/Licensing revenue is derived from TV/VOD, theatrical and home entertainment distribution. In addition, revenue is generated from music distribution, stage plays and post-production services through Industrial Light &#38; Magic and Skywalker Sound. 

The Company also publishes National Geographic magazine, which is reported with Content Sales/Licensing. 

TV/VOD Distribution 

We license our content to third-party television networks, television stations and other video service providers for distribution to viewers on television or a variety of internet-connected devices, including through other DTC services. 

Theatrical Distribution 

The Company licenses full-length live-action and animated films to theaters globally. Cumulatively through September 28, 2024, the Company has released approximately 1,100 full-length live-action films and 100 full-length animated films. In the domestic and most major international markets, we generally distribute and market our films directly. In certain international markets our films are distributed by independent companies. In some territories, certain films may be exclusively distributed on our DTC streaming services. During fiscal 2025, we expect to release approximately 15 films. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

The Company incurs significant marketing and advertising costs before and throughout the theatrical release of a film in an effort to generate public awareness of the film, to increase the public&#8217;s intent to view the film and to help generate consumer interest in the subsequent home entertainment and other ancillary markets. These costs are expensed as incurred, which may result in a loss on a film in the theatrical markets, including in periods prior to the theatrical release of the film. 

Home Entertainment Distribution 

The Company&#8217;s film and episodic content is sold in both electronic (home video license and video-on-demand rentals) and physical (DVD and Blu-ray disc) formats. We distribute through e-tailers such as Apple and Amazon, and MVPDs, such as Comcast and DirecTV, for electronic distribution. We have licensed the rights for physical distribution to third parties who generally sell to retailers, such as Walmart and Amazon. 

Physical distribution of film content in the home entertainment window generally starts within three months after the theatrical release. Electronic formats are typically available approximately two to ten weeks ahead of the physical release. We also license titles to video-on-demand e-tailers within five weeks after physical home entertainment distribution. 

Distribution of episodic content in the home entertainment window includes electronic sales of season passes that can be purchased prior to, during and after the broadcast season with individual episodes typically available to season pass customers shortly after the initial airing of the show in each territory. Access to individual episodes is also available for electronic purchase shortly after the initial airing in each territory. 

Disney Theatrical Group 

Disney Theatrical Group develops, produces and licenses live entertainment events on Broadway and around the world. Productions include The Lion King , Aladdin , Frozen and Beauty and the Beast . 

Disney Theatrical Group also licenses the Company&#8217;s IP to Feld Entertainment, the producer of Disney On Ice . 

Disney Music Group 

The Disney Music Group encompasses all aspects of the Company&#8217;s music commercialization and marketing including: recorded music (Walt Disney Records and Hollywood Records); music publishing; and concerts. Disney Music Group distributes music both physically and digitally and also licenses music throughout the world in various forms of media, including: television; print; gaming; and consumer products. 

Equity Investment 

The Company has a 30% effective interest in Tata Play Limited, which operates a direct-to-home satellite distribution platform in India. 

Content Production and Acquisition 

Produced content primarily consists of original films and episodic programs and network news and daytime/late night programming. Licensed content includes acquired episodic programming rights, movies and specials. Original content is generally produced under the following banners: Disney Branded Television; FX Productions; Lucasfilm; Marvel; National Geographic Studios; Pixar; Searchlight Pictures; Twentieth Century Studios; 20th Television; and Walt Disney Pictures. Original content is also commissioned and produced by various third-party studios. Program development is carried out in collaboration with writers, producers and creative teams. 

Costs to produce content are generally capitalized and allocated across Entertainment&#8217;s businesses based on the estimated relative value of the distribution windows. 

Generally, the Company has full production and distribution rights to its IP. However, Sony Pictures Entertainment has the rights to produce and distribute Spider-Man films as a result of licensing these rights from Marvel prior to the Company&#8217;s acquisition of Marvel. 

The Company has a significant library of content spanning approximately 100 years of production history as well as acquired libraries. The library of content includes approximately 5,200 live-action film titles, 450 animated film titles and episodic series (series with four or more seasons include approximately: 75 dramas; 55 comedies; 40 non-scripted series; 15 animated series; and 10 live-action series). In addition, the library includes approximately 130 series and 80 films that were produced for initial distribution on our DTC platforms. 

In fiscal 2025, the Company plans to produce or commission approximately 215 episodic and film titles. The vast majority of our productions will initially be distributed on our Linear Networks and/or DTC platforms or theatrically. Programming is also produced for third parties, which typically have domestic linear distribution rights while the Company retains domestic video-on-demand and international distribution rights. We also license, acquire or produce local content for use in various countries/territories. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Competition and Seasonality 

Linear Networks and Direct-to-Consumer compete for viewers&#8217; attention and audience share primarily with other television networks, independent television stations and other media, such as other DTC streaming services, social media and video games. With respect to the sale of advertising time, we compete with other television networks, independent television stations, MVPDs, other DTC streaming services and other advertising media such as digital content, newspapers, magazines, radio and billboards. Our television stations primarily compete for audiences and advertisers in local market areas. 

Linear Networks compete with other networks for carriage by MVPDs. The Company&#8217;s contractual agreements with MVPDs are renewed or renegotiated from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Consolidation and other market conditions in the cable, satellite and telecommunication distribution industry, including subscriber levels, and other factors may adversely affect the Company&#8217;s ability to obtain and maintain contractual terms for the distribution of its various programming services that are as favorable as those currently in place. 

Content Sales/Licensing businesses compete with all forms of entertainment and a significant number of companies that produce and/or distribute film and episodic content, distribute products in the home entertainment market, provide pay TV/VOD services, and produce music and live theater. 

The operating results of Content Sales/Licensing fluctuate due to the timing and performance of releases in the theatrical, home entertainment and television markets. Release dates are determined by several factors, including competition and the timing of vacation and holiday periods. 

We also compete with other media and entertainment companies, independent production companies and video-on-demand services for creative and performing talent, story properties, show concepts, scripted and other programming, advertiser support, production facilities and exhibition outlets that are essential to the success of our Entertainment businesses. 

Advertising revenues at Linear Networks and Direct-to-Consumer are subject to seasonal advertising patterns and changes in viewership levels. In general, domestic advertising revenues are typically somewhat higher during the fall and somewhat lower during the summer months. Affiliate revenues vary with the subscriber levels of MVPDs. 

SPORTS 

The Sports segment generally encompasses the Company&#8217;s sports-focused global television and DTC video streaming content production and distribution activities. 

The lines of business within Sports include the following: 

&#8226; ESPN (generally owned 80% by the Company) 

&#9702; Domestic: 

&#9642; Seven ESPN-branded television channels 

&#9642; ESPN on ABC (sports programmed on the ABC Network by ESPN) 

&#9642; ESPN+ DTC service 

&#9702; International: ESPN-branded channels outside of the U.S. 

&#8226; Star: Star-branded sports channels in India 

In February 2024, the Company, Fox Corporation and Warner Bros. Discovery, Inc. announced plans to create a joint venture to offer a sports-focused DTC platform (Venu Sports) that will distribute each party&#8217;s domestic sports networks, certain broadcast networks and sports streaming services. In August 2024, a motion for preliminary injunction in a matter before the District Court for the Southern District of New York was granted, enjoining the launch of Venu Sports. See Note 14 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding this legal matter. Further, the formation and launch of Venu Sports are subject to the finalization of definitive agreements among the parties. 

In early fall 2025, the Company plans to launch a new DTC offering, which will include live linear streams of the domestic ESPN-branded television channels and ESPN+. 

The significant revenues of Sports are as follows: 

&#8226; Affiliate fees 

&#8226; Advertising 

&#8226; Subscription fees 

&#8226; Other revenue - Fees from the following activities: pay-per-view events on ESPN+, sub-licensing of sports rights, programming ESPN on ABC and licensing the ESPN brand 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

The significant expenses of Sports are as follows: 

&#8226; Operating expenses, consisting primarily of programming and production costs, technology support costs, operating labor and distribution costs. Programming and production costs include amortization of licensed sports rights and production costs related to live sports and other sports-related programming. 

&#8226; Selling, general and administrative costs, including marketing costs 

&#8226; Depreciation and amortization 

Domestic ESPN 

Branded television channels include seven 24-hour domestic television sports channels: 

&#8226; ESPN and ESPN2 - both dedicated to professional and college sports as well as sports news and original programming 

&#8226; ESPNU - dedicated to college sports 

&#8226; ESPNEWS - re-airs select ESPN studio shows and airs a variety of other programming 

&#8226; SEC Network - dedicated to Southeastern Conference college athletics 

&#8226; ACC Network - dedicated to Atlantic Coast Conference college athletics 

&#8226; ESPN Deportes - airs professional and college sports as well as studio shows in Spanish 

ESPN programs ESPN on ABC and recognizes the direct revenues and costs for this programming and receives a fee from the ABC Network, which is eliminated in consolidation. In addition, the Company earns advertising and licensing revenues from providing promotional services and licensing the ESPN BET trademark to PENN Entertainment, Inc. in connection with its operation of a sportsbook. 

The Company has various sports programming rights, which are used to produce content aired on ESPN television networks and ESPN+, including live events and sports news. Rights include the National Football League (NFL), college football (including bowl games and the College Football Playoff) and basketball, the National Basketball Association (NBA), mixed martial arts, Major League Baseball (MLB), the National Hockey League (NHL), soccer, Top Rank Boxing, Formula 1, US Open Tennis, the Wimbledon Championships, the Masters golf tournament, the Professional Golfers&#8217; Association (PGA) Championship and the Women&#8217;s National Basketball Association (WNBA). 

The number of subscribers (in millions) for the significant domestic branded channels are as follows: 

##TABLE_START Subscribers ESPN (1) 

66 ESPN2 (1) 

66 ESPNU (1) 

47 ESPNEWS (2) 

40 SEC Network (2) 

ACC Network (2) 

44 ##TABLE_END

(1) Based on Nielsen Media Research estimates as of September 2024. Estimates include traditional MVPD and the majority of digital OTT subscriber counts. 

(2) Because Nielsen Media Research does not measure this channel, estimated subscribers are according to SNL Kagan as of December 2023. 

ESPN+ is a domestic subscription-based DTC service offering thousands of live sporting events, on-demand sports content and other original programming. The service is offered individually or in various bundles with Disney+ and Hulu to customers directly or through third-party distributors on mobile and internet connected devices. ESPN+ revenue is derived from subscription fees, pay-per-view fees and, to a lesser extent, advertising. Live events available through the service include mixed martial arts, soccer, hockey, boxing, baseball, college sports, golf, tennis and cricket. ESPN+ is currently the exclusive distributor for Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) pay-per-view events in the U.S. As of September 28, 2024, the estimated number of paid ESPN+ subscribers, based on internal management reports, was approximately 26 million. 

International ESPN 

The Company operates approximately 45 ESPN branded sports channels outside the U.S. in 4 languages and approximately 115 countries/territories. In the Netherlands, the ESPN branded channels are operated by Eredivisie Media &#38; Marketing CV (EMM) (owned 51% by the Company), which has the media and sponsorship rights to the Dutch Premier League for soccer. Rights include various soccer leagues (including English Premier League, LaLiga, Bundesliga and multiple UEFA leagues). As of September 2024, the estimated number of subscribers to ESPN branded channels outside the U.S., based on internal management reports, was approximately 55 million. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Star 

The Company operates 10 Star branded sports channels in India, in 4 languages. Star has rights to various sports programming, primarily cricket and soccer. As of September 2024, the estimated number of subscribers to Star branded channels, based on internal management reports, was approximately 79 million. 

Equity Investments 

The most significant equity investment at Sports is a 30% interest in CTV Specialty Television, Inc. (CTV). The Company&#8217;s share of CTV&#8217;s financial results is reported as &#8220;Equity in the income of investees&#8221; in the Company&#8217;s Consolidated Statements of Income. CTV operates television networks in Canada, including The Sports Networks (TSN) 1-5, Le R&#233;seau des Sports (RDS), RDS2, RDS Info, Discovery Canada, Discovery Science and Animal Planet Canada. 

Competition and Seasonality 

Sports competes for viewers&#8217; attention and audience share primarily with other television networks, independent television stations and other media, such as other DTC streaming services, social media and video games. With respect to the sale of advertising time, we compete with other television networks, independent television stations, MVPDs and other advertising media such as digital content, newspapers, magazines, radio and billboards. 

The Sports television networks compete with other networks for carriage by MVPDs. The Company&#8217;s contractual agreements with MVPDs are renewed or renegotiated from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Consolidation and other market conditions in the cable, satellite and telecommunication distribution industry and other factors may adversely affect the Company&#8217;s ability to obtain and maintain contractual terms for the distribution of its various programming services that are as favorable as those currently in place. 

We also compete with other media and entertainment companies and video-on-demand services for sports rights, creative and performing talent and other programming, advertiser support and production facilities that are essential to the success of our Sports businesses. 

Advertising revenues are subject to changes in viewership levels and the demand for sports programming. Advertising revenues generated from sports programming are also impacted by the timing of sports seasons and events, which timing may vary throughout the year or may take place periodically (e.g. biannually, quadrennially). Affiliate revenues vary with the subscriber levels of MVPDs. 

EXPERIENCES 

The lines of business within Experiences along with their significant business activities include the following: 

&#8226; Parks &#38; Experiences: 

&#9702; Domestic: 

&#9642; Theme parks and resorts: 

&#8226; Walt Disney World Resort in Florida 

&#8226; Disneyland Resort in California 

&#9642; Experiences: 

&#8226; Disney Cruise Line 

&#8226; Disney Vacation Club 

&#8226; National Geographic Expeditions (owned 73% by the Company) and Adventures by Disney 

&#8226; Aulani, a Disney Resort &#38; Spa in Hawaii 

&#9702; International: 

&#9642; Theme parks and resorts: 

&#8226; Disneyland Paris 

&#8226; Hong Kong Disneyland Resort (48% ownership interest and consolidated in our financial results) 

&#8226; Shanghai Disney Resort (43% ownership interest and consolidated in our financial results) 

&#8226; In addition, the Company licenses its IP to a third party that owns and operates Tokyo Disney Resort 

&#8226; Consumer Products: 

&#9702; Licensing of our trade names, characters, visual, literary and other IP to various manufacturers, game developers, publishers and retailers throughout the world, for use on merchandise, published materials and games 

&#9702; Sale of branded merchandise through online, retail and wholesale businesses, and development and publishing of books, comic books and magazines (except National Geographic magazine, which is reported in Entertainment) 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

The significant revenues of Experiences are as follows: 

&#8226; Theme park admissions - Sales of tickets for admission to our theme parks and for premium access to certain attractions (e.g. Lightning Lane) 

&#8226; Resorts and vacations - Sales of room nights at hotels, sales of cruise and other vacations and sales and rentals of vacation club properties 

&#8226; Parks &#38; Experiences merchandise, food and beverage - Sales of merchandise, food and beverages at our theme parks and resorts and cruise ships 

&#8226; Merchandise licensing and retail: 

&#9702; Merchandise licensing - Royalties from licensing our IP for use on consumer goods 

&#9702; Retail - Sales of merchandise through internet shopping sites, at The Disney Store and to wholesalers 

&#8226; Parks licensing and other - Revenues from sponsorships and co-branding opportunities, real estate rent and sales and royalties earned on Tokyo Disney Resort revenues 

The significant expenses of Experiences are as follows: 

&#8226; Operating expenses, consisting primarily of operating labor, infrastructure costs, costs of goods sold and distribution costs, supplies, commissions and entertainment offerings. Infrastructure costs include technology support costs, repairs and maintenance, utilities and fuel, property taxes, retail occupancy costs, insurance and transportation 

&#8226; Selling, general and administrative costs, including marketing costs 

&#8226; Depreciation and amortization 

Significant capital investments: 

&#8226; In recent years, the majority of the Company&#8217;s capital spend has been at our parks and experiences business, which is principally for theme park and resort expansion, new attractions, cruise ships, capital improvements and systems infrastructure. 

Parks &#38; Experiences 

Walt Disney World Resort 

The Walt Disney World Resort is located approximately 20 miles southwest of Orlando, Florida, on approximately 25,000 acres of land. The resort includes theme parks (the Magic Kingdom, EPCOT, Disney&#8217;s Hollywood Studios and Disney&#8217;s Animal Kingdom); hotels; vacation club properties; a retail, dining and entertainment complex (Disney Springs); a sports complex; conference centers; campgrounds; golf courses; water parks; and other recreational facilities designed to attract visitors for an extended stay. 

The Walt Disney World Resort is marketed through a variety of international, national and local advertising and promotional activities. A number of attractions and restaurants in each of the theme parks are sponsored or operated by other companies under multi-year agreements. 

Magic Kingdom &#8212; The Magic Kingdom consists of six themed areas: Adventureland, Fantasyland, Frontierland, Liberty Square, Main Street USA and Tomorrowland. Each area provides a unique guest experience featuring themed attractions, restaurants, merchandise shops and entertainment experiences. 

EPCOT &#8212; EPCOT consists of four major themed areas: World Showcase, World Celebration, World Nature and World Discovery. All areas feature themed attractions, restaurants, merchandise shops and entertainment experiences. Countries represented with pavilions include Canada, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Morocco, Norway, the United Kingdom and the U.S. CommuniCore Hall and Plaza opened in June 2024, completing a multi-year transformation at EPCOT. 

Disney&#8217;s Hollywood Studios &#8212; Disney&#8217;s Hollywood Studios consists of eight themed areas: Animation Courtyard, Commissary Lane, Echo Lake, Grand Avenue, Hollywood Boulevard, Star Wars : Galaxy&#8217;s Edge, Sunset Boulevard and Toy Story Land. The areas provide behind-the-scenes glimpses of Hollywood-style action through various shows and attractions and offer themed restaurants, merchandise shops and entertainment experiences. 

Disney&#8217;s Animal Kingdom &#8212; Disney&#8217;s Animal Kingdom consists of a 145-foot tall Tree of Life centerpiece surrounded by five themed areas: Africa, Asia, DinoLand USA, Discovery Island and Pandora - The World of Avatar. Each themed area contains attractions, restaurants, merchandise shops and entertainment experiences. The park features more than 300 species of live mammals, birds, reptiles and amphibians and 3,000 varieties of vegetation. DinoLand USA will be rethemed and in 2027, is planned to open as Tropical Americas, which will feature themed attractions, restaurants, merchandise shops and entertainment experiences. 

Hotels, Vacation Club Properties and Other Resort Facilities &#8212; As of September 28, 2024, the Company owned and operated 18 resort hotels and vacation club properties at the Walt Disney World Resort, with approximately 23,000 rooms and 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

3,600 vacation club units. Resort facilities include 500,000 square feet of conference meeting space and Disney&#8217;s Fort Wilderness camping and recreational area, which offers approximately 800 campsites. 

Disney Springs is an approximately 120 acre themed retail, dining and entertainment complex and consists of four areas: Marketplace, The Landing, Town Center and West Side. The areas are home to approximately 150 venues including the World of Disney retail store, which includes approximately 38,000 square feet of retail space. Most of the Disney Springs facilities are operated by third parties that pay rent to the Company. 

Ten independently-operated hotels with approximately 7,000 rooms are situated on property leased from the Company. 

ESPN Wide World of Sports Complex is a 230 acre center that hosts professional caliber training and competitions, festival and tournament events and interactive sports activities. The complex, which welcomes both amateur and professional athletes, accommodates multiple sporting events, including baseball, basketball, football, soccer, softball, tennis and track and field. It also includes a stadium, as well as two venues designed for cheerleading, dance competitions and other indoor sports. 

Other recreational amenities and activities available at the Walt Disney World Resort include three championship golf courses, miniature golf courses, full-service spas, tennis, sailing, swimming, horseback riding and a number of other sports and leisure time activities. The resort also includes two water parks: Disney&#8217;s Blizzard Beach and Disney&#8217;s Typhoon Lagoon. 

Disneyland Resort 

The Disneyland Resort is located in Anaheim, California on approximately 550 acres of land. The Disneyland Resort includes two theme parks (Disneyland and Disney California Adventure), three resort hotels and a retail, dining and entertainment complex (Downtown Disney). 

The Disneyland Resort is marketed through a variety of international, national and local advertising and promotional activities. A number of attractions and restaurants in the theme parks are sponsored or operated by other companies under multi-year agreements. 

Disneyland &#8212; Disneyland consists of nine themed areas: Adventureland, Bayou Country, Fantasyland, Frontierland, Main Street USA, Mickey&#8217;s Toontown, New Orleans Square, Star Wars : Galaxy&#8217;s Edge and Tomorrowland. These areas feature themed attractions, restaurants, merchandise shops and entertainment experiences. 

Disney California Adventure &#8212; Disney California Adventure includes eight themed areas: Avengers Campus, Buena Vista Street, Cars Land, Grizzly Peak, Hollywood Land, Paradise Gardens Park, Pixar Pier and San Fransokyo Square. These areas include themed attractions, restaurants, merchandise shops and entertainment experiences. 

Hotels, Vacation Club Units and Other Resort Facilities &#8212; As of September 28, 2024, the Company owned and operated three resort hotels and vacation club properties at the Disneyland Resort, with approximately 2,400 rooms and 180 vacation club units. Resort facilities included 180,000 square feet of conference meeting space. 

Downtown Disney is a themed 15-acre retail, dining and entertainment complex with approximately 30 venues. Most of the Downtown Disney facilities are operated by third parties that pay rent to the Company. 

Aulani, a Disney Resort &#38; Spa 

Aulani, a Disney Resort &#38; Spa is a family resort on a 21 acre oceanfront property on Oahu, Hawaii featuring approximately 350 hotel rooms, an 18,000-square-foot spa and 12,000 square feet of conference meeting space. The resort also has approximately 480 vacation club units. 

Disneyland Paris 

Disneyland Paris is located approximately 20 miles east of Paris, France in Marne-la-Vall&#233;e, on approximately 5,200 acres. The land is being developed pursuant to a master agreement with French governmental authorities. Disneyland Paris includes two theme parks (Disneyland Park and Walt Disney Studios Park); seven themed resort hotels; two convention centers; a retail, dining and entertainment complex (Disney Village); and a 27-hole golf facility. Of the 5,200 acres comprising the site, approximately half have been developed to date, including a planned community (Val d&#8217;Europe). 

Disneyland Park &#8212; Disneyland Park consists of five themed areas: Adventureland, Discoveryland, Fantasyland, Frontierland and Main Street USA. These areas include themed attractions, restaurants, merchandise shops and entertainment experiences. 

Walt Disney Studios Park &#8212; Walt Disney Studios Park includes five themed areas: Front Lot, Production Courtyard, Toon Studio, Worlds of Pixar and Avengers Campus. These areas each include themed attractions, restaurants, merchandise shops and entertainment experiences. Walt Disney Studios Park is undergoing a multi-year expansion that will include a new themed area based on Frozen , which is planned to open in 2026 and coincide with the renaming of Walt Disney Studios Park to Disney Adventure World. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Hotels and Other Facilities &#8212; Disneyland Paris operates seven resort hotels, with approximately 5,750 rooms and 250,000 square feet of conference meeting space. In addition, we have relationships with seven independently-owned and operated partner hotels, both on- and off-property, that provide approximately 2,100 rooms. 

Disney Village is an approximately 500,000-square-foot themed retail, dining and entertainment complex. Construction is currently underway on a multi-year transformation of Disney Village. A number of the Disney Village facilities are operated by third parties that pay rent to the Company. 

Val d&#8217;Europe is a planned community near Disneyland Paris that is being developed in phases. Val d&#8217;Europe currently includes a regional train station, hotels and a town center consisting of a shopping center as well as office, commercial and residential space. Third parties operate these developments on land leased or purchased from the Company. 

Hong Kong Disneyland Resort 

The Company owns a 48% interest in Hong Kong Disneyland Resort and the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) owns a 52% interest. The resort is located on Lantau Island on 310 acres and is in close proximity to the Hong Kong International Airport and the Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macau Bridge. Hong Kong Disneyland Resort includes one theme park and three themed resort hotels. A separate Hong Kong subsidiary of the Company is responsible for managing Hong Kong Disneyland Resort. The Company is entitled to receive royalties and management fees based on the operating performance of Hong Kong Disneyland Resort. 

Hong Kong Disneyland &#8212; Hong Kong Disneyland consists of eight themed areas: Adventureland, Fantasyland, Grizzly Gulch, Main Street USA, Mystic Point, Tomorrowland, Toy Story Land and World of Frozen. These areas feature themed attractions, restaurants, merchandise shops and entertainment experiences. 

Hotels &#8212; Hong Kong Disneyland Resort includes three themed hotels with approximately 1,750 rooms and 16,000 square feet of conference meeting space. 

Shanghai Disney Resort 

The Company owns a 43% interest in Shanghai Disney Resort and Shanghai Shendi (Group) Co., Ltd (Shendi) owns a 57% interest. The resort is located in the Pudong district of Shanghai on approximately 1,000 acres of land, which includes the Shanghai Disneyland theme park; two themed resort hotels; a retail, dining and entertainment complex (Disneytown); and an outdoor recreation area. A management company, in which the Company has a 70% interest and Shendi has a 30% interest, is responsible for operating the resort and receives a management fee based on the operating performance of Shanghai Disney Resort. The Company is also entitled to royalties based on the resort&#8217;s revenues. 

Shanghai Disneyland &#8212; Shanghai Disneyland consists of eight themed areas: Adventure Isle, Fantasyland, Gardens of Imagination, Mickey Avenue, Tomorrowland, Toy Story Land, Treasure Cove and Zootopia, which opened in December 2023. These areas feature themed attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and entertainment experiences. 

Hotels and Other Facilities &#8212; Shanghai Disneyland Resort includes two themed hotels with approximately 1,200 rooms. Disneytown is an 11-acre outdoor complex of retail, dining, and entertainment venues located adjacent to Shanghai Disneyland. Most Disneytown facilities are operated by third parties that pay rent to Shanghai Disney Resort. The Company is currently constructing a third themed hotel, which will have approximately 400 rooms. 

Tokyo Disney Resort 

Tokyo Disney Resort is located on 494 acres of land, six miles east of downtown Tokyo, Japan. The Company earns royalties on revenues generated by the Tokyo Disney Resort, which is owned and operated by Oriental Land Co., Ltd. (OLC), a third-party Japanese corporation. The resort includes two theme parks (Tokyo Disneyland and Tokyo DisneySea); six Disney-branded hotels; six other hotels (operated by third parties other than OLC); a retail, dining and entertainment complex (Ikspiari); and Bon Voyage, a Disney-themed merchandise location. 

Tokyo Disneyland &#8212; Tokyo Disneyland consists of seven themed areas: Adventureland, Critter Country, Fantasyland, Tomorrowland, Toontown, Westernland and World Bazaar. 

Tokyo DisneySea &#8212; Tokyo DisneySea is divided into eight &#8220;ports of call,&#8221; including American Waterfront, Arabian Coast, Lost River Delta, Mediterranean Harbor, Mermaid Lagoon, Mysterious Island, Port Discovery and Fantasy Springs, which opened in June 2024. 

Hotels and Other Resort Facilities &#8212; Tokyo Disney Resort includes six Disney-branded hotels with approximately 3,500 rooms and a monorail, which links the theme parks and resort hotels with Ikspiari. The sixth Disney-branded hotel, Tokyo DisneySea Fantasy Springs Hotel, opened in June 2024. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Disney Vacation Club (DVC) 

DVC offers ownership interests in 17 resort properties located at the Walt Disney World Resort; Disneyland Resort; Aulani; Vero Beach, Florida; and Hilton Head Island, South Carolina. Available units are offered for sale under a vacation ownership plan and are operated as hotel rooms when not occupied by vacation club members. The Company&#8217;s vacation club units range from deluxe studios to three-bedroom grand villas. Unit counts in this document are presented in terms of two-bedroom equivalents. DVC had approximately 4,500 vacation club units as of September 28, 2024, including the first phases of The Cabins at Disney&#8217;s Fort Wilderness Resort, which opened in July 2024. 

Storyliving by Disney 

The Company has partnered with a third-party developer to build two Storyliving by Disney residential communities: Cotino in Rancho Mirage, California; and Asteria in Pittsboro, North Carolina. The communities are currently under development, and the Company will earn royalties on revenues generated by sales of the residential homes. 

Disney Cruise Line 

Disney Cruise Line is a six-ship vacation cruise line, which operates out of ports in North America, Europe and the South Pacific. The Disney Magic and the Disney Wonder are 85,000-ton 875-stateroom ships; the Disney Dream and the Disney Fantasy are 130,000-ton 1,250-stateroom ships; and the Disney Wish and the Disney Treasure , which was delivered in October 2024, are 140,000-ton 1,250-stateroom ships. The ships cater to families, children, teenagers and adults, with themed areas and activities for each group. Many cruise vacations include a visit to Disney&#8217;s Castaway Cay, a 1,000-acre private Bahamian island, or Disney Lookout Cay at Lighthouse Point, which opened in June 2024 on approximately 600 acres of land on the island of Eleuthera. 

Disney Cruise Line will be adding two new ships, the Disney Adventure and the Disney Destiny, which are scheduled to begin sailings in the first quarter of fiscal 2026. The Disney Destiny will be approximately 140,000 tons with 1,250 staterooms and will initially operate in North America. The Disney Adventure will be approximately 200,000 tons with approximately 2,100 staterooms and will initially operate in Southeast Asia. 

Between calendar 2027 and 2031, the Company plans to add four more new cruise ships, all of which are currently under contract to be built. 

In July 2024, the Company entered into a licensing agreement with OLC, under which OLC will own and operate a Disney-branded cruise ship based in Japan. The ship is currently under contract to be built, with sailings expected to commence by 2029. The Company will earn royalties on revenues generated by OLC. 

Adventures by Disney and National Geographic Expeditions 

Adventures by Disney and National Geographic Expeditions offer guided tour packages predominantly at non-Disney sites around the world. 

Walt Disney Imagineering 

Walt Disney Imagineering provides master planning, real estate development, attraction, entertainment and show design, engineering support, production support, project management and research and development. 

Consumer Products 

Licensing 

The Company&#8217;s merchandise licensing operations cover a diverse range of product categories, the most significant of which are: toys, apparel, games, home d&#233;cor and furnishings, accessories, health and beauty, food, footwear, stationery and consumer electronics. The Company licenses characters from its film, television and other properties for use on third-party products in these categories and earns royalties, which are usually based on a fixed percentage of the wholesale or retail selling price of the products and often include minimum guarantee payments from the licensees. Major properties licensed by the Company include: Mickey and Friends, Star Wars, Spider-Man, Disney Princess, Lilo &#38; Stitch, Frozen, Avengers, Winnie the Pooh and Toy Story. 

Retail 

The Company sells Disney-, Marvel-, Pixar- and Lucasfilm-branded products through Disney Store branded internet sites and Disney Store branded retail locations. At September 28, 2024, the Company operates approximately 40 stores in Japan, 20 stores in North America, two stores in Europe and one store in China. 

The Company creates, distributes and publishes a variety of products in multiple countries and languages based on the Company&#8217;s branded franchises. The products include children&#8217;s books and comic books. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Competition and Seasonality 

The Company&#8217;s theme parks and resorts as well as Disney Cruise Line and Disney Vacation Club compete with other forms of entertainment, lodging, tourism and recreational activities. The profitability of the leisure-time industry may be influenced by various factors that are not directly controllable, such as economic conditions including business cycle and exchange rate fluctuations, health concerns, the political environment, travel industry trends, amount of available leisure time, oil and transportation prices, weather patterns and natural disasters. The licensing and retail business competes with other licensors, retailers and publishers of character, brand and celebrity names, as well as other licensors, publishers and developers of game software, online video content, websites, other types of home entertainment and retailers of toys and kids merchandise. 

All of the theme parks and the associated resort facilities are operated on a year-round basis. Typically, theme park attendance and resort occupancy fluctuate based on the seasonal nature of vacation travel and leisure activities, the opening of new guest offerings and pricing and promotional offers. Peak attendance and resort occupancy generally occur during the summer months when school vacations occur and during early winter and spring holiday periods. In addition, theme park and resort revenues may be higher during significant celebrations such as theme park or character anniversaries and lower in the periods following such celebrations. The licensing, retail and wholesale businesses are influenced by seasonal consumer purchasing behavior, which generally results in higher revenues during the Company&#8217;s first and fourth fiscal quarter, and by the timing and performance of theatrical and game releases and cable programming broadcasts. 

STAR INDIA TRANSACTION 

The Company and Reliance Industries Limited (RIL) plan to close a transaction on or about November 14, 2024, which will form a joint venture that combines our Star-branded and other general entertainment and sports television channels and direct-to-consumer Disney+ Hotstar service in India (Star India) and certain media and entertainment businesses controlled by RIL (the Star India Transaction) (see Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). 

HUMAN CAPITAL 

The Company&#8217;s key human capital management objectives are to attract, retain and develop the highest quality talent. To support these objectives, the Company&#8217;s human resources programs are designed to develop talent to prepare them for critical roles and leadership positions for the future; reward and support employees through competitive pay, benefit and perquisite programs; enhance the Company&#8217;s culture through efforts aimed at making the workplace more engaging and inclusive; acquire talent and facilitate internal talent mobility to create a high-performing, diverse workforce; engage employees as brand ambassadors of the Company&#8217;s content, products and experiences; and evolve and invest in technology, tools and resources to enable employees at work. 

The Company employed approximately 233,000 people as of September 28, 2024, of which approximately 171,000 were employed in the U.S. and approximately 62,000 were employed outside the U.S. Our global workforce comprises approximately 76% full time and 16% part time employees, with another 8% being seasonal employees. A significant number of employees in various parts of our businesses, including employees of our theme parks, and writers, directors, actors and production personnel for our productions are covered by collective bargaining agreements. In addition, some of our employees outside the U.S. are represented by works councils, trade unions or other employee associations. 

Some of our key programs and initiatives to attract, develop and retain our diverse workforce include: 

&#8226; Health, financial, family resources, well-being and other benefits: Disney&#8217;s benefit offerings are designed to meet the varied and evolving needs of our diverse employees and their families. These benefit offerings for eligible employees include: 

&#9702; Healthcare options aimed at improving quality of care while limiting out-of-pocket costs 

&#9702; Retirement and savings programs that help employees adapt to changing needs and unexpected events and drive financial security in the present and the future 

&#9702; Family care resources, such as childcare and senior care programs, long-term care coverage and a family building benefit 

&#9702; Paid time-off programs, including vacation and sick and family care leave 

&#9702; Free mental health and well-being resources 

&#9702; Global well-being programs, including in-person offerings through campus health clubs and virtual and onsite events and activities focused on physical, emotional, financial and social well-being 

&#9702; Two Centers for Living Well in the Orlando area that offer convenient, on-demand access to board-certified physicians and counselors 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

&#8226; Diversity, Equity &#38; Inclusion (DEI): Our DEI objectives are to build and sustain teams that reflect the life experiences of our audiences, while employing and supporting a diverse array of voices in our creative and production teams. Some of our DEI initiatives and programs are: 

&#9702; Executive incubator program and creative talent development program designed to engage the next generation of creative executives from underrepresented backgrounds 

&#9702; Heroes Work Here, an initiative to hire, train and support U.S. military veterans 

&#9702; Over 100 employee-led groups, which represent and support the diverse communities that make up our global workforce 

&#8226; Talent Development and Education: We invest in creating opportunities to help employees grow and build their careers through training, professional development and educational programs. 

&#9702; Our training and professional development programs are presented in online, instructor-led and on-the-job learning formats, including Career@Disney: INTERACTIVE, a new series of immersive virtual and in-person experiences designed to aid employees in enhancing their careers 

&#9702; Our education investment program, Disney Aspire, offers assistance for tuition, books and fees to eligible participating employees at a variety of in-network learning providers and universities at levels ranging from high school completion to undergraduate degrees. At the end of fiscal 2024, more than 12,000 current employees were enrolled and more than 5,000 current employees had graduated since the program launched in 2018. 

&#8226; Social Impact: The Company has a longstanding commitment to social impact by supporting communities through our philanthropic efforts, including through our support of wish granting and children&#8217;s hospitals and our efforts to support communities in which we operate and the contributions of our employees. The Company supports employees who make monetary donations to eligible nonprofits with a generous U.S. matching gifts program. In addition, through the Disney VoluntEARS program, we encourage employees to donate their time and talents to their local communities and provide grants that allow eligible employees to direct donations from the Company to nonprofits of their choosing as a benefit for the time they spend volunteering. 

ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 

The Company has developed measurable environmental sustainability goals for 2030, based on our assessment of where the Company&#8217;s operations have the most significant environmental impacts and where we can most effectively mitigate those impacts. The Company&#8217;s goals encompass science-based targets for Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, water stewardship, waste reduction, sustainable design in construction and use of more sustainable materials in our products. 

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PROTECTION 

The Company&#8217;s businesses throughout the world are affected by its ability to exploit and protect against infringement of its IP, including trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents and trade secrets. Important IP includes rights in the content of motion pictures, television programs, electronic games, sound recordings, character likenesses, theme park attractions, books and magazines and merchandise. Risks related to the protection and exploitation of IP rights and information concerning the expiration of certain of our copyrights are set forth in Item 1A &#8211; Risk Factors. 

REGULATION 

Federal Communications Commission Regulation 

Television broadcasting is subject to extensive regulation by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) under federal laws and regulations, including the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. Violation of FCC regulations can result in substantial monetary fines, limited renewals of licenses and, in egregious cases, denial of license renewal or revocation of a license. FCC regulations that affect linear channels include the following: 

&#8226; Licensing of television stations . Each of the television stations we own must be licensed by the FCC. These licenses are granted for periods of up to eight years, and we must obtain renewal of licenses as they expire in order to continue operating the stations. We (and the acquiring entity in the case of a divestiture) must also obtain FCC approval whenever we seek to have a license transferred in connection with the acquisition or divestiture of a station. The FCC may decline to renew or approve the transfer of a license in certain circumstances and may delay renewals while permitting a licensee to continue operating. Although we have received such renewals and approvals in the past or have been permitted to continue operations when renewal is delayed, there can be no assurance that this will be the case in the future. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

&#8226; Station ownership limits . The FCC imposes limitations on the number of television stations and radio stations an entity can own in a specific market, on the combined number of television and radio stations an entity can own in a single market and on the aggregate percentage of the national audience that can be reached by television stations. Currently: 

&#9702; FCC regulations may restrict our ability to own more than one television station in a market, depending on the size and nature of the market. We do not own more than one television station in any market. 

&#9702; Federal statutes permit our television stations in the aggregate to reach a maximum of 39% of the national audience. Pursuant to the most recent decision by the FCC as to how to calculate compliance with this limit, our eight stations reach approximately 20% of the national audience. 

&#8226; Dual networks . FCC rules currently prohibit any of the four major broadcast television networks &#8212; ABC, CBS, Fox and NBC &#8212; from being under common ownership or control. 

&#8226; Foreign ownership . The Communications Act generally restricts foreign individuals or entities from collectively owning more than 25% of the voting or equity interest in a U.S. entity that controls a broadcast television license. FCC approval is required to exceed the 25% threshold. 

&#8226; Regulation of programming . The FCC regulates broadcast programming by, among other things, banning &#8220;indecent&#8221; programming, regulating political advertising and imposing commercial time limits during children&#8217;s programming. Penalties for broadcasting indecent programming can be over $400,000 per indecent utterance or image per station. 

Federal legislation and FCC rules also limit the amount of commercial matter that may be shown on broadcast or cable channels during programming designed for children 12 years of age and younger. In addition, broadcast stations are generally required to provide an average of three hours per week of programming that has as a &#8220;significant purpose&#8221; meeting the educational and informational needs of children 16 years of age and younger. FCC rules also give television station owners the right to reject or refuse network programming in certain circumstances or to substitute programming that the licensee reasonably believes to be of greater local or national importance. 

&#8226; Cable and satellite carriage of broadcast television stations. With respect to MVPDs operating within a television station&#8217;s Designated Market Area, FCC rules require that every three years each television station elect either &#8220;must carry&#8221; status, pursuant to which MVPDs generally must carry a local television station in the station&#8217;s market, or &#8220;retransmission consent&#8221; status, pursuant to which the MVPDs must negotiate with the television station to obtain the consent of the television station prior to carrying its signal. The ABC owned television stations have historically elected retransmission consent. 

&#8226; Cable and satellite carriage of programming. The Communications Act and FCC rules regulate some aspects of negotiations between programmers and distributors regarding the carriage of networks by cable and satellite distribution companies, and some cable and satellite distribution companies have sought regulation of additional aspects of the carriage of programming on their systems. New legislation, court action or regulation in this area could have an impact on the Company&#8217;s operations. 

The foregoing is a brief summary of certain provisions of the Communications Act, other legislation and specific FCC rules and policies. Reference should be made to the Communications Act, other legislation, FCC rules and public notices and rulings of the FCC for further information concerning the nature and extent of the FCC&#8217;s regulatory authority. 

FCC laws and regulations are subject to change, and the Company generally cannot predict whether new legislation, court action or regulations, or a change in the extent of application or enforcement of current laws and regulations, would have an adverse impact on our operations. 

Privacy and Data Protection Regulation 

Our businesses are subject to various privacy and data protection laws and regulations in most of the domestic and international jurisdictions in which our businesses operate. Those laws and regulations govern our use, collection, storage, retention and sharing of personal information and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, including within the U.S. at the federal level and among the 50 states. This patchwork of domestic and international laws creates different obligations that are, at times, inconsistent with one another. 

While there is no comprehensive privacy law in the U.S. at the federal level, there are a number of sector-specific federal privacy laws applicable to our operations, such as the Video Privacy Protection Act, which restricts the ability to share personal information along with specific viewing information with third parties. In addition, various U.S. states, including California, have passed comprehensive data privacy laws that establish various consumer rights with respect to their personal information, including the right to opt out of the sale or sharing of personal information with third parties, to gain access to the personal information that companies hold about them, to delete personal information and to limit the use and disclosure of sensitive information. We are also subject to privacy legal and regulatory requirements in many jurisdictions outside the United States, including the General Data Protection Regulation in the European Union and similar comprehensive data privacy legislation in 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

the UK. These laws require organizations that process the personal data of EU and UK citizens to comply with certain data protection standards and privacy rights, including requirements to implement privacy by design; parental consent for processing children&#8217;s data; detailed privacy notices and related consents; breach notifications; and data subject rights to enforce access, rectification, objection, restriction, portability and deletion. 

We also are subject to laws and regulations that are intended to protect the privacy of children online, including the Children&#8217;s Online Protection Privacy Act, a U.S. federal law that requires websites and online services to obtain parental consent before collecting personal information from children under 13, as well as codes of conduct relating to the design of digital products and services likely to be accessed by children, such as the UK&#8217;s Age Appropriate Design Code. These laws, regulations and codes of conduct have an impact on the marketing of our products and services, the advertising on certain of our and third-party digital platforms that distribute our content and the design of certain of our new media offerings. 

In addition, U.S. state laws and many international data protection laws require notifications to consumers and regulators in the event of a data breach, mandating that businesses provide consumers and/or government agencies notice of unauthorized access or disclosure of certain information. 

Interpretation of privacy and data protection laws and enforcement priorities continue to evolve and in some cases, regulators seek to apply novel interpretations of existing laws. 

Compliance with privacy and data protection laws and regulations entails significant investments and is costly and requires us to employ dedicated compliance personnel and processes. In addition, many of these laws and regulations provide for substantial fines, private rights of action for damages and other relief. 

International Content Regulation 

The laws and regulations in many international jurisdictions in which we operate, including in the EU and Canada, require our linear networks or our DTC streaming services to include a certain amount of programming produced in specific jurisdictions or languages or require us to invest specified amounts of our revenues in local content or to acquire content produced by local independent production companies. In addition, some countries regulate the content of films and television programming, which can impact our ability to distribute certain content in those jurisdictions or can require us to make adjustments to the films or programming. These laws and regulations increase our costs and impact our ability to operate our DTC streaming services and linear networks and distribute our films and programming in these markets. 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available without charge on our website, www.disney.com/investors, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 

We also use our Investor Relations website as a means of disclosing material non-public information. We may also use our Investor Relations website for the purpose of complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Therefore, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in Disney to review the information we post on our Investor Relations website. 

We are providing the address to our website solely for the information of investors. We do not intend our website address to be an active link or to otherwise incorporate the contents of the website into this report. 



Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations:
 ITEM 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS 

($ in millions, except per share data) ##TABLE_START &#160; 2024 2023 % Change 

Better (Worse) 

Revenues: Services $ 81,841 &#160; &#160; $ 79,562 &#160; &#160; 3 % Products 9,520 &#160; &#160; 9,336 &#160; &#160; 2 % Total revenues 91,361 &#160; &#160; 88,898 &#160; 3 % Costs and expenses: Cost of services (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) ( 52,509 ) &#160; ( 53,139 ) &#160; 1 % Cost of products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) ( 6,189 ) &#160; ( 6,062 ) &#160; (2) % Selling, general, administrative and other ( 15,759 ) &#160; ( 15,336 ) &#160; (3) % Depreciation and amortization ( 4,990 ) &#160; ( 5,369 ) &#160; 7 % Total costs and expenses (79,447) &#160; (79,906) &#160; 1 % Restructuring and impairment charges ( 3,595 ) &#160; ( 3,892 ) &#160; 8 % Other income (expense), net ( 65 ) &#160; 96 &#160; &#160; nm Interest expense, net ( 1,260 ) &#160; ( 1,209 ) &#160; (4) % Equity in the income of investees, net 575 &#160; &#160; 782 &#160; &#160; (26) % Income before income taxes 

7,569 &#160; &#160; 4,769 &#160; 59 % Income taxes 

( 1,796 ) &#160; ( 1,379 ) &#160; (30) % Net income 5,773 &#160; &#160; 3,390 &#160; 70 % Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 

( 801 ) &#160; ( 1,036 ) &#160; 23 % Net income attributable to Disney $ 4,972 &#160; &#160; $ 2,354 &#160; &#62;100 % Diluted earnings per share attributable to Disney 

$ 2.72 &#160; &#160; $ 1.29 &#160; &#160; &#62;100 % ##TABLE_END

Organization of Information 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis provides a narrative on the Company&#8217;s financial performance and condition that should be read in conjunction with the accompanying financial statements. It includes the following sections: 

&#8226; Consolidated Results and Non-Segment Items 

&#8226; Business Segment Results 

&#8226; Corporate and Unallocated Shared Expenses 

&#8226; Liquidity and Capital Resources 

&#8226; Developments and Trends 

&#8226; Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

&#8226; DTC Product Descriptions, Key Definitions and Supplemental Information 

&#8226; Supplemental Guarantor Financial Information 

In Item 7, we discuss fiscal 2024 and 2023 results and comparisons of fiscal 2024 results to fiscal 2023 results. Discussions of fiscal 2022 results and comparisons of fiscal 2023 results to fiscal 2022 results can be found in &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; in Part II, Item 7 of the Company&#8217;s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2023. 

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS AND NON-SEGMENT ITEMS 

Revenues for fiscal 2024 increased 3%, or $2.5 billion, to $91.4 billion; net income attributable to Disney increased $2.6 billion to income of $5.0 billion compared to $2.4 billion in the prior year; and diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations attributable to Disney increased to $2.72 compared to $1.29 in the prior year. The EPS increase was due to higher operating income at Entertainment. 

Revenues 

Service revenues for fiscal 2024 increased 3%, or $2.3 billion, to $81.8 billion, due to higher subscription revenue, growth at our parks and experiences businesses, and, to a lesser extent, higher advertising revenue. These increases were partially offset 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

by lower theatrical distribution revenue, a decrease in TV/VOD distribution sales and lower affiliate revenue. Service revenues reflected an approximate 1 percentage point decrease due to an unfavorable movement of the U.S. dollar against major currencies including the impact of our hedging program (Foreign Exchange Impact). 

Costs and expenses 

Cost of services for fiscal 2024 decreased 1%, or $0.6 billion, to $52.5 billion, primarily due to lower non-sports programming and production costs, partially offset by higher sports programming and production costs and the impact of inflation and increased volumes at our parks and experiences businesses. Costs of services reflected an approximate 1 percentage point decrease due to a favorable Foreign Exchange Impact. 

Depreciation and amortization decreased 7%, or $0.4 billion, to $5.0 billion due to lower depreciation at our domestic parks and resorts and lower TFCF and Hulu acquisition amortization. 

Restructuring and Impairment Charges 

##TABLE_START ($ in millions) 2024 2023 Impairments: 

Star India 

$ 1,545 &#160; $ &#8212; Goodwill (1) 

1,287 &#160; 721 Retail assets 

328 &#160; &#8212; Content (2) 

187 &#160; 2,577 Equity investments 165 &#160; 141 Severance 83 &#160; 357 Costs to exit our Russia businesses and other 

&#8212; &#160; 96 $ 3,595 &#160; $ 3,892 ##TABLE_END

(1) In the current year, goodwill impairments related to our general entertainment linear networks. In the prior year, goodwill impairments related to our general entertainment and international sports linear networks. 

(2) In the current and prior years, content impairments related to strategic changes in our approach to content curation. 

Other Income (expense), net ##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 % Change Better (Worse) DraftKings gain 

$ &#8212; &#160; &#160; $ 169 &#160; &#160; (100) % Other, net (65) &#160; (73) &#160; 11 % Other income (expense), net $ (65) &#160; $ 96 &#160; nm ##TABLE_END

In fiscal 2023, the Company recognized a gain of $ 169 million on its investment in DraftKings, Inc. (DraftKings), which was sold in fiscal 2023. 

Interest Expense, net ##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 % Change Better (Worse) Interest expense $ ( 2,070 ) &#160; $ ( 1,973 ) &#160; (5) % Interest income, investment income and other 810 &#160; 764 6 % Interest expense, net $ (1,260) &#160; $ (1,209) &#160; (4) % ##TABLE_END

The increase in interest expense was due to higher average rates, partially offset by lower average debt balances. 

The increase in interest income, investment income and other was driven by a larger benefit from pension and postretirement benefit costs, other than service cost, and investments gains in the current year compared to losses in the prior year, partially offset by the impact of lower cash and cash equivalent balances. 

Equity in the Income of Investees 

Equity in the income of investees decreased $207 million to $ 575 million in the current year due to lower income from A+E. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Effective Income Tax Rate 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 

Income before income taxes 

$ 7,569 &#160; &#160; $ 4,769 &#160; 

Income tax expense 

1,796 &#160; &#160; 1,379 &#160; 

Effective income tax rate 

23.7% 28.9% ##TABLE_END

The decrease in the effective income tax rate in the current year compared to the prior year was due to the recognition of a $418 million benefit in the current year related to prior years&#8217; tax matters (Income Tax Reserve Adjustments) and a lower foreign effective tax rate. These decreases were partially offset by higher non-tax deductible impairments in the current year compared to the prior year. We recognized $2.9 billion of impairments in the current year and $0.7 billion of impairments in the prior year that are not tax deductible. 

Noncontrolling Interests ##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 % Change Better (Worse) Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 

$ ( 801 ) $ ( 1,036 ) 23 % ##TABLE_END

The decrease in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests reflected the comparison to the accretion of NBCU&#8217;s interest in Hulu and Major League Baseball&#8217;s interest in BAMTech LLC as well as lower results at our National Geographic business. These decreases were partially offset by improved results at Hong Kong Disneyland Resort. We had accreted to the redemption value for BAMTech LLC by November 2022 and to the guaranteed floor payment for Hulu by December 2023. 

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests is determined on income after royalties and management fees, financing costs and income taxes, as applicable. 

Certain Items Impacting Results in the Year 

Results for fiscal 2024 were impacted by the following: 

&#8226; Restructuring and impairment charges of $3,595 million 

&#8226; TFCF and Hulu acquisition amortization of $1,677 million 

&#8226; Other expense of $65 million related to a legal ruling 

&#8226; Income Tax Reserve Adjustments of $418 million 

Results for fiscal 2023 were impacted by the following: 

&#8226; Restructuring and impairment charges of $3,892 million 

&#8226; TFCF and Hulu acquisition amortization of $1,998 million 

&#8226; Other income, net of $96 million, primarily due to the DraftKings gain ($169 million), partially offset by a charge related to a legal ruling ($101 million) 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

A summary of the impact of these items on EPS is as follows: ##TABLE_START 

($ in millions, except per share data) 

Pre-Tax Income (Loss) Tax Benefit (Expense) (1) 

After-Tax Income (Loss) EPS Favorable (Adverse) (2) 

Year Ended September 28, 2024: 

Restructuring and impairment charges 

$ (3,595) &#160; $ 293 &#160; $ (3,302) &#160; $ (1.78) TFCF and Hulu acquisition amortization (3) 

(1,677) &#160; 391 (1,286) &#160; (0.68) 

Other expense 

(65) &#160; 11 (54) &#160; (0.03) 

Income Tax Reserve Adjustments 

&#8212; &#160; 418 &#160; 418 &#160; 0.23 Total $ (5,337) &#160; $ 1,113 &#160; $ (4,224) &#160; $ (2.26) &#160; 

Year Ended September 30, 2023: 

Restructuring and impairment charges (4) 

$ (3,836) &#160; $ 717 &#160; $ (3,119) &#160; $ (1.69) TFCF and Hulu acquisition amortization (3) 

(1,998) &#160; 465 (1,533) &#160; (0.82) Other income, net 

96 &#160; (13) &#160; 83 &#160; 0.05 Total $ (5,738) &#160; $ 1,169 &#160; $ (4,569) &#160; $ (2.46) &#160; ##TABLE_END

(1) Tax benefit (expense) is determined using the tax rate applicable to the individual item. 

(2) EPS is net of noncontrolling interest, where applicable. Total may not equal the sum of the column due to rounding. 

(3) Includes amortization of intangibles related to TFCF equity investees. 

(4) Restructuring and impairment charges in the prior year include the impact of a content license agreement termination with A+E, which generated a gain at A+E. The Company&#8217;s 50% interest in this gain was $56 million (A+E gain) and is included in Restructuring and impairment charges in this table. 

BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS 

The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment revenue and segment operating income. 

Below is a discussion of the major revenue and expense categories for our business segments. Costs and expenses for each segment consist of operating expenses, selling, general, administrative and other costs, and depreciation and amortization. Selling, general, administrative and other costs include third-party and internal marketing expenses. 

Entertainment 

The Entertainment segment generates revenue from film, episodic and other content that is produced and distributed across three significant lines of business: 

&#8226; Linear Networks, which primarily generates revenue from affiliate fees and advertising 

&#8226; Direct-to-Consumer, which primarily generates revenue from subscription fees and advertising 

&#8226; Content Sales/Licensing, which primarily generates revenue from the sale of film and episodic content in the TV/VOD and home entertainment markets, distribution of films in the theatrical market, licensing of our music rights, sales of tickets to stage play performances and licensing of our IP for use in stage plays. Revenues also include an intersegment allocation of revenues from the Experiences segment, which is meant to reflect royalties on consumer products merchandise licensing revenues generated on IP created by the Entertainment segment. 

Operating expenses at the Entertainment segment primarily consist of programming and production costs, technology support costs, operating labor and distribution costs. Programming and production costs include the following: 

&#8226; Amortization of capitalized production costs and licensed programming rights 

&#8226; Subscriber-based fees for programming the Hulu Live service, including fees paid by Hulu to the Sports segment and other Entertainment segment businesses for the right to air their linear networks on Hulu Live 

&#8226; Production costs related to live programming (primarily news) 

&#8226; Participations and residual expenses 

&#8226; Fees paid to the Sports segment to program ESPN on ABC and certain sports content on Disney+ 

Amortization of capitalized production costs and licensed programming rights is generally allocated across Entertainment&#8217;s businesses based on the estimated relative value of the distribution windows. The initial costs of marketing 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

campaigns are generally recognized in the business of initial exploitation. Certain other costs, such as technology, shared services and certain labor related costs, are allocated based on metrics designed to correlate with consumption. 

Sports 

The Sports segment primarily generates revenue from affiliate fees, advertising, subscription fees, pay-per-view fees and sub-licensing of sports rights. Operating expenses consist primarily of programming and production costs, technology support costs, operating labor and distribution costs. Programming and production costs include amortization of licensed sports rights and production costs related to live sports and other sports-related programming. 

Experiences 

The Experiences segment primarily generates revenue from the sale of admissions to theme parks, the sale of food, beverage and merchandise at our theme parks and resorts, charges for room nights at hotels, sales of cruise vacations, sales and rentals of vacation club properties, royalties from licensing our IP for use on consumer goods and the sale of branded merchandise. Revenues are also generated from sponsorships and co-branding opportunities, real estate rent and sales, and royalties from Tokyo Disney Resort. Significant expenses include operating labor, infrastructure costs, costs of goods sold and distribution costs, depreciation and other operating expenses. Infrastructure costs include technology support costs, repairs and maintenance, utilities and fuel, property taxes, retail occupancy costs, insurance and transportation. Other operating expenses include costs for such items as supplies, commissions and entertainment offerings. 

Eliminations 

The following transactions are recognized in segment revenues and eliminated in total Company revenue: 

&#8226; Fees paid by Hulu to ESPN and the Entertainment linear networks business for the right to air their networks on Hulu Live 

&#8226; Fees paid by ABC Network and Disney+ to ESPN to program ESPN on ABC and certain sports content on Disney+, respectively 

BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS - 2024 vs. 2023 

The following table presents revenues from our operating segments: 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 % Change Better (Worse) Entertainment 

$ 41,186 &#160; &#160; $ 40,635 &#160; 1 % Sports 

17,619 &#160; &#160; 17,111 &#160; 3 % Experiences 

34,151 &#160; &#160; 32,549 &#160; 5 % Eliminations 

(1,595) &#160; (1,397) &#160; (14) % Revenues 

$ 91,361 &#160; &#160; $ 88,898 &#160; 3 % ##TABLE_END

The following table presents income from our operating segments and other components of income from continuing operations before income taxes: 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 % Change Better (Worse) Entertainment operating income 

$ 3,923 &#160; &#160; $ 1,444 &#160; &#62;100 % Sports operating income 

2,406 &#160; &#160; 2,465 &#160; (2) % Experiences operating income 

9,272 &#160; &#160; 8,954 &#160; 4 % Corporate and unallocated shared expenses ( 1,435 ) &#160; ( 1,147 ) &#160; (25) % 

Restructuring and impairment charges (1) 

( 3,595 ) &#160; ( 3,836 ) &#160; 6 % Other income (expense), net ( 65 ) &#160; 96 &#160; nm 

Interest expense, net 

( 1,260 ) &#160; ( 1,209 ) &#160; (4) % TFCF and Hulu acquisition amortization ( 1,677 ) &#160; ( 1,998 ) &#160; 16 % Income from continuing operations before income taxes $ 7,569 &#160; &#160; $ 4,769 &#160; 59 % ##TABLE_END

(1) Restructuring and impairment charges in the prior year i nclude the A+E gain. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Entertainment 

Revenue and operating results for the Entertainment segment are as follows: ##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 % Change Better (Worse) Revenues: Linear Networks 

$ 10,692 &#160; &#160; $ 11,701 &#160; (9) % Direct-to-Consumer 22,776 &#160; 19,886 15 % Content Sales/Licensing and Other 7,718 &#160; 9,048 (15) % $ 41,186 &#160; $ 40,635 1 % Segment operating income (loss): Linear Networks 

$ 3,452 &#160; $ 4,119 (16) % Direct-to-Consumer 143 &#160; &#160; (2,496) nm Content Sales/Licensing and Other 328 &#160; (179) nm $ 3,923 &#160; $ 1,444 &#62;100 % ##TABLE_END

Revenues 

The increase in Entertainment revenues was due to subscription revenue growth, partially offset by decreases in theatrical distribution, affiliate and TV/VOD distribution revenues. 

Operating income 

The increase in Entertainment operating income was due to improved results at Direct-to-Consumer and, to a lesser extent, Content Sales/Licensing and Other, partially offset by a decrease at Linear Networks. 

Linear Networks 

Operating results for Linear Networks are as follows: 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 % Change Better (Worse) Revenues Affiliate fees $ 6,872 &#160; &#160; $ 7,369 &#160; (7) % Advertising 3,676 &#160; &#160; 4,159 &#160; (12) % Other 144 &#160; &#160; 173 &#160; (17) % Total revenues 10,692 &#160; &#160; 11,701 &#160; (9) % Operating expenses (5,083) &#160; (5,577) &#160; 9 % Selling, general, administrative and other (2,644) &#160; (2,641) &#160; &#8212; % Depreciation and amortization (52) &#160; (54) &#160; 4 % Equity in the income of investees 539 &#160; &#160; 690 &#160; (22) % Operating Income $ 3,452 &#160; &#160; $ 4,119 &#160; (16) % ##TABLE_END

Revenues - Affiliate fees 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 % Change Better (Worse) Domestic 

$ 5,826 &#160; $ 6,136 (5) % International 

1,046 &#160; 1,233 (15) % $ 6,872 &#160; &#160; $ 7,369 &#160; (7) % ##TABLE_END

The decrease in domestic affiliate revenue was due to a decline of 11% from fewer subscribers, including the impact of the non-renewal of carriage of certain networks by an affiliate, partially offset by an increase of 6% from higher effective rates. 

Lower international affiliate revenue was attributable to decreases of 8% from fewer subscribers driven by channel closures, 3% from lower effective rates and 3% from an unfavorable Foreign Exchange Impact. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Revenues - Advertising 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 % Change Better (Worse) Domestic 

$ 2,705 &#160; $ 3,178 (15) % International 

971 &#160; &#160; 981 &#160; (1) % $ 3,676 $ 4,159 (12) % ##TABLE_END

The decrease in domestic advertising revenue was due to a decrease of 14% from fewer impressions and 2% from lower rates. The decrease in impressions was due to lower average viewership. Lower rates were driven by a decrease in political advertising at the owned television stations. 

International advertising revenue decreased modestly compared to the prior year as decreases of 3% from an unfavorable Foreign Exchange Impact and 3% from fewer impressions were partially offset by an increase of 4% from higher rates. 

Operating Expenses 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 % Change Better (Worse) Programming and production costs Domestic $ (3,463) &#160; $ (3,858) &#160; 10 % International (706) &#160; (712) &#160; 1 % Total programming and production costs 

(4,169) &#160; (4,570) &#160; 9 % Other operating expenses (914) &#160; (1,007) &#160; 9 % $ (5,083) &#160; $ (5,577) &#160; 9 % ##TABLE_END

The decrease in domestic programming and production costs was due to a lower average cost mix of programming, including fewer hours of scripted programming, which reflected the impact of production delays as a result of guild strikes in the prior year. 

International programming and production costs were comparable to the prior year as the impact of channel closures and a favorable Foreign Exchange Impact were largely offset by inflation. 

The decrease in other operating expenses was due to lower technology and distribution costs including the impact of international channel closures. 

Equity in the Income of Investees 

Income from equity investees decreased $151 million, to $539 million from $690 million, due to lower income from A+E attributable to decreases in advertising and affiliate revenue. 

Operating Income from Linear Networks 

Operating income decreased 16%, to $3,452 million from $4,119 million due to decreases at our domestic and international businesses and lower income from equity investees. 

Supplemental revenue and operating income 

The following table provides supplemental revenue and operating income detail for Linear Networks: 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 % Change Better (Worse) Supplemental revenue detail Domestic 

$ 8,621 &#160; $ 9,406 (8) % International 

2,071 &#160; 2,295 (10) % $ 10,692 &#160; $ 11,701 (9) % Supplemental operating income detail Domestic 

$ 2,387 &#160; $ 2,735 (13) % International 

526 &#160; 694 (24) % Equity in the income of investees 539 &#160; 690 (22) % $ 3,452 &#160; &#160; $ 4,119 &#160; (16) % ##TABLE_END

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Direct-to-Consumer 

Operating results for Direct-to-Consumer are as follows: 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 % Change Better (Worse) Revenues Subscription fees $ 18,796 &#160; &#160; $ 16,420 &#160; 14 % Advertising 3,707 &#160; &#160; 3,260 &#160; 14 % Other 

273 &#160; &#160; 206 &#160; 33 % Total revenues 22,776 &#160; &#160; 19,886 &#160; 15 % Operating expenses (17,748) &#160; (17,859) &#160; 1 % Selling, general, administrative and other (4,574) &#160; (4,168) &#160; (10) % Depreciation and amortization (311) &#160; (355) &#160; 12 % 

Operating Income (Loss) 

$ 143 &#160; &#160; $ (2,496) &#160; nm ##TABLE_END

Revenues - Subscription fees 

Growth in subscription fees reflected increases of 10% attributable to higher effective rates due to increases in retail pricing and 6% from subscriber growth, partially offset by a decrease of 2% from an unfavorable Foreign Exchange Impact. 

Revenues - Advertising 

Higher advertising revenue reflected an increase of 26% from higher impressions, partially offset by a decrease of 12% from lower rates. The increase in impressions was due to Disney+ and Disney+ Hotstar growth, in part reflecting the launches of the ad-supported Disney+ service domestically in December 2022 and internationally starting in November 2023 and airing more cricket programming on Disney+ Hotstar. There were two significant International Cricket Council (ICC) tournaments in the current year compared to one in the prior year. 

Revenues - Other 

The increase in other revenue was due to a favorable Foreign Exchange Impact. 

Key Metrics 

In addition to revenue, costs and operating income, management uses the following key metrics (1) to analyze trends and evaluate the overall performance of Disney+, Disney+ Hotstar and Hulu, and we believe these metrics are useful to investors in analyzing the business: 

Paid subscribers at: 

##TABLE_START (in millions) September 28, 2024 September 30, 2023 % Change Better (Worse) Disney+ Domestic (U.S. and Canada) 56.0 &#160; 46.5 20 % International (excluding Disney+ Hotstar) (1) 

66.7 &#160; 66.1 1 % Disney+ Core (2) 

122.7 &#160; 112.6 9 % Disney+ Hotstar 35.9 &#160; 37.6 (5) % Hulu SVOD Only 47.4 &#160; 43.9 8 % Live TV + SVOD 4.6 &#160; 4.6 &#8212; % Total Hulu (2) 

52.0 &#160; 48.5 7 % ##TABLE_END

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Average Monthly Revenue Per Paid Subscriber for the fiscal year ended: ##TABLE_START 2024 2023 % Change Better (Worse) Disney+ Domestic (U.S. and Canada) $ 7.89 $ 6.97 13 % International (excluding Disney+ Hotstar) (1) 

6.60 5.93 11 % Disney+ Core 

7.18 6.39 12 % Disney+ Hotstar 0.96 0.66 45 % Hulu SVOD Only 12.35 12.17 1 % Live TV + SVOD 95.12 90.52 5 % ##TABLE_END

(1) See discussion on page 55 &#8212;DTC Product Descriptions, Key Definitions and Supplemental Information 

(2) Total may not equal the sum of the column due to rounding. 

Domestic Disney+ average monthly revenue per paid subscriber increased from $6.97 to $7.89 due to higher retail pricing, partially offset by a higher mix of subscribers to wholesale offerings. 

International Disney+ (excluding Disney+ Hotstar) average monthly revenue per paid subscriber increased from $5.93 to $6.60 due to increases in retail pricing, partially offset by a higher mix of subscribers to ad-supported and promotional offerings and an unfavorable Foreign Exchange Impact. 

Disney+ Hotstar average monthly revenue per paid subscriber increased from $0.66 to $0.96 due to higher retail pricing and higher advertising revenue, partially offset by a higher mix of subscribers in lower-priced markets. 

Hulu SVOD Only average monthly revenue per paid subscriber increased from $12.17 to $12.35 due to increases in retail pricing, partially offset by a lower mix of subscribers with premium add-ons and a higher mix of subscribers to multi-product and promotional offerings. 

Hulu Live TV + SVOD average monthly revenue per paid subscriber increased from $90.52 to $95.12 due to higher retail pricing, partially offset by lower advertising, a lower mix of subscribers with premium add-ons and a higher mix of subscribers to promotional offerings. 

Operating Expenses 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 % Change Better (Worse) Programming and production costs Hulu $ (8,582) $ (8,265) (4) % Disney+ and other 

(5,499) (5,694) 3 % Total programming and production costs (14,081) (13,959) (1) % Other operating expense (3,667) (3,900) 6 % $ (17,748) $ (17,859) 1 % ##TABLE_END

Higher programming and production costs at Hulu were due to an increase in subscriber-based fees for programming the Hulu Live TV service primarily attributable to rate increases. 

The decrease in programming and production costs at Disney+ and other was attributable to lower costs for non-sports content available on Disney+, partially offset by higher costs for cricket programming at Disney+ Hotstar. The increase in cricket programming costs reflected two significant ICC tournaments in the current year compared to one in the prior year. 

Other operating expenses decreased due to lower distribution costs. 

Selling, general, administrative and other 

Selling, general, administrative and other costs increased $406 million, to $4,574 million from $4,168 million, primarily attributable to increases in marketing and labor costs. 

Operating Income (Loss) from Direct-to-Consumer 

Operating results from Direct-to-Consumer increased $2,639 million, to operating income of $143 million from an operating loss of $2,496 million due to improved results at Disney+. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Content Sales/Licensing and Other 

Operating results for Content Sales/Licensing and Other are as follows: 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 % Change Better (Worse) Revenues TV/VOD distribution 

$ 2,255 &#160; &#160; $ 2,618 &#160; (14) % Theatrical distribution 2,266 &#160; &#160; 3,174 &#160; (29) % Home entertainment distribution 

753 &#160; &#160; 931 &#160; (19) % Other 2,444 &#160; &#160; 2,325 &#160; 5 % Total revenues 7,718 &#160; &#160; 9,048 &#160; (15) % Operating expenses (4,901) &#160; (6,280) &#160; 22 % Selling, general, administrative and other (2,108) &#160; (2,595) &#160; 19 % Depreciation and amortization (371) &#160; (347) &#160; (7) % 

Equity in the loss of investees 

(10) &#160; (5) &#160; (100) % Operating Income (Loss) $ 328 &#160; &#160; $ (179) &#160; nm ##TABLE_END

Revenues - TV/VOD distribution 

The decrease in TV/VOD distribution revenue was due to lower sales of episodic and, to a lesser extent, film content. 

Revenues - Theatrical distribution 

The decrease in theatrical distribution revenue reflected fewer significant releases in the current year compared to the prior year. The current year included Inside Out 2, Deadpool &#38; Wolverine, Kingdom of the Planet of the Apes, Alien: Romulus, Wish and The Marvels. The prior year included Avatar: The Way of Water, Black Panther: Wakanda Forever, Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3, The Little Mermaid , Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania , Elemental and Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny. 

Revenues - Home entertainment distribution 

The decrease in home entertainment distribution revenue was due to lower unit sales. 

Revenues - Other 

Other revenue increased primarily due to higher revenue at Lucasfilm&#8217;s special effects business due to higher rates and more projects. 

Operating expenses 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 % Change Better (Worse) Programming and production costs $ (4,135) $ (5,383) 23 % Distribution costs and cost of goods sold (766) (897) 15 % $ (4,901) $ (6,280) 22 % ##TABLE_END

The decrease in programming and production costs was due to lower production cost amortization attributable to the decreases in theatrical and TV/VOD distribution revenues, partially offset by higher film cost impairments. 

Lower distribution costs and cost of goods sold were driven by decreases in theatrical, home entertainment and TV/VOD distribution costs, partially offset by an increase at Lucasfilm&#8217;s special effects business due to more projects. 

Selling, general, administrative and other 

Selling, general, administrative and other costs decreased $487 million, to $2,108 million from $2,595 million, driven by lower theatrical marketing costs reflecting fewer significant releases in the current year. 

Operating Income (Loss) from Content Sales/Licensing and Other 

Operating results from Content Sales/Licensing and Other increased $507 million, to income of $328 million from a loss of $179 million due to higher theatrical distribution results. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Items Excluded from Segment Operating Income Related to Entertainment 

The following table presents supplemental information for items related to Entertainment that are excluded from segment operating income: 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 % Change Better (Worse) Restructuring and impairment charges (1) 

$ (1,670) &#160; $ (3,431) &#160; 51 % TFCF and Hulu acquisition amortization (2) 

(1,337) &#160; (1,602) &#160; 17 % Gain on sale of a business 

&#8212; &#160; &#160; 28 &#160; (100) % ##TABLE_END

(1) Fiscal 2024 includes $1,287 million for goodwill impairments related to our general entertainment linear networks, $187 million for content impairments, a $158 million impairment of an equity investment and $38 million of severance. Fiscal 2023 includes $2,521 million for content impairments (net of the A+E gain), $425 million for a goodwill impairment related to our general entertainment linear networks, $248 million of severance, a $141 million impairment of an equity investment and $96 million of charges primarily related to exiting our businesses in Russia. 

(2) In fiscal 2024, amortization of step-up on film and television costs was $271 million and amortization of intangible assets was $1,054 million. In fiscal 2023, amortization of step-up on film and television costs was $439 million and amortization of intangible assets was $1,151 million. 

Sports 

Operating results for the Sports segment are as follows: 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 % Change Better (Worse) Revenues Affiliate fees $ 10,418 &#160; &#160; $ 10,590 &#160; (2) % Advertising 4,388 &#160; &#160; 3,920 &#160; 12 % Subscription fees 1,650 &#160; &#160; 1,517 &#160; 9 % Other 

1,163 &#160; &#160; 1,084 &#160; 7 % Total revenues 17,619 &#160; &#160; 17,111 &#160; 3 % Operating expenses (13,934) &#160; (13,314) &#160; (5) % Selling, general, administrative and other (1,298) &#160; (1,314) &#160; 1 % Depreciation and amortization (39) &#160; (73) &#160; 47 % Equity in the income of investees 58 &#160; &#160; 55 &#160; 5 % Operating Income $ 2,406 &#160; &#160; $ 2,465 &#160; (2) % ##TABLE_END

Revenues - Affiliate fees 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 % Change Better (Worse) ESPN 

Domestic $ 9,131 &#160; &#160; $ 9,267 (1) % International 1,049 &#160; 1,051 &#8212; % 10,180 10,318 &#160; (1) % Star India 

238 &#160; 272 (13) % $ 10,418 &#160; &#160; $ 10,590 &#160; (2) % ##TABLE_END

The decrease in domestic ESPN affiliate revenue was due to a decrease of 8% from fewer subscribers, partially offset by an increase of 7% from higher effective rates. 

International ESPN affiliate revenue was comparable to the prior year, as decreases from an unfavorable Foreign Exchange Impact and fewer subscribers were largely offset by higher effective rates. 

Lower Star India affiliate revenue was attributable to decreases of 7% from lower effective rates and 4% from fewer subscribers. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Revenues - Advertising 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 % Change Better (Worse) ESPN 

Domestic $ 3,763 $ 3,413 10 % International 181 &#160; &#160; 189 &#160; (4) % 3,944 3,602 9 % Star India 

444 &#160; 318 40 % $ 4,388 &#160; &#160; $ 3,920 &#160; 12 % ##TABLE_END

The increase in domestic ESPN advertising revenue was due to increases of 8% from higher rates and 3% from sponsorship revenue growth, partially offset by a decrease of 2% from lower average viewership. 

The decrease in international ESPN advertising revenue was due to a decrease of 11% from an unfavorable Foreign Exchange Impact, partially offset by increases of 5% from higher rates and 2% from higher average viewership. 

Higher Star India advertising revenue was attributable to airing two significant ICC cricket tournaments in the current year compared to one in the prior year. 

Revenues - Subscription fees 

Subscription fees increased $133 million, to $1,650 million from $1,517 million, due to higher rates attributable to increases in retail pricing. 

Revenues - Other 

Other revenue increased $79 million, to $1,163 million from $1,084 million, due to higher fees received from the Entertainment segment to program sports and an increase in revenue from licensing the ESPN brand, partially offset by an unfavorable Foreign Exchange Impact. 

Key metrics 

In addition to revenue, costs and operating income, management uses the following key metrics (1) to analyze trends and evaluate the overall performance of ESPN+, and we believe these metrics are useful to investors in analyzing the business: 

##TABLE_START September 28, 2024 September 30, 2023 % Change Better (Worse) Paid subscribers at fiscal year end (in millions) 

25.6 &#160; &#160; 26.0 &#160; (2) % Average Monthly Revenue per Paid Subscriber for the fiscal year 

$ 6.14 &#160; &#160; $ 5.49 &#160; 12 % ##TABLE_END

ESPN+ average monthly revenue per paid subscriber increased from $5.49 to $6.14 due to increases in retail pricing and higher advertising revenue. 

(1) See discussion on page 55 &#8212;DTC Product Descriptions, Key Definitions and Supplemental Information 

Operating expenses 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 % Change Better (Worse) Programming and production costs ESPN 

Domestic $ (10,435) &#160; $ (10,221) &#160; (2) % International (1,194) &#160; (1,127) &#160; (6) % (11,629) &#160; (11,348) &#160; (2) % Star India 

(1,354) &#160; (1,025) &#160; (32) % (12,983) &#160; (12,373) &#160; (5) % Other operating expenses (951) &#160; (941) &#160; (1) % $ (13,934) &#160; $ (13,314) &#160; (5) % ##TABLE_END

Programming and production costs at domestic ESPN increased in the current year compared to the prior year due to contractual rate increases and higher production costs. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

The increase in international ESPN programming and production costs was due to new soccer rights. 

Higher Star India programming and production costs were attributable to an increase in cricket programming costs due to airing two significant ICC tournaments in the current year compared to one in the prior year. This increase was partially offset by the comparison to costs for Board of Control for Cricket in India cricket programming in the prior year, which rights we did not renew for the current fiscal year. 

Depreciation and amortization 

Depreciation and amortization decreased $34 million, to $39 million from $73 million primarily due to technology assets that were fully depreciated in the prior year. 

Operating Income from Sports 

Operating income decreased $59 million, to $2,406 million from $2,465 million due to higher operating losses at Star India and, to a lesser extent, international ESPN, partially offset by an increase at domestic ESPN. 

Supplemental revenue and operating income 

The following table provides supplemental revenue and operating income (loss) detail for the Sports segment: 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 % Change Better (Worse) Supplemental revenue detail ESPN 

Domestic $ 15,339 &#160; &#160; $ 14,945 &#160; 3 % International 1,439 &#160; &#160; 1,437 &#160; &#160;&#8212; % 16,778 &#160; &#160; 16,382 &#160; 2 % Star India 

841 &#160; 729 15 % $ 17,619 &#160; &#160; $ 17,111 &#160; 3 % 

Supplemental operating income (loss) detail 

ESPN 

Domestic $ 3,056 &#160; &#160; $ 2,881 &#160; 6 % International (72) &#160; (39) &#160; (85) % 2,984 &#160; &#160; 2,842 &#160; 5 % Star India 

(636) (432) &#160; (47) % Equity in the income of investees 58 &#160; &#160; 55 &#160; 5 % $ 2,406 &#160; &#160; $ 2,465 &#160; (2) % ##TABLE_END

Items Excluded from Segment Operating Income Related to Sports 

The following table presents supplemental information for items related to Sports that are excluded from segment operating income: 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 % Change Better (Worse) TFCF acquisition amortization (1) 

$ (333) &#160; $ (388) &#160; 14 % Restructuring and impairment charges (2) 

(12) &#160; (346) &#160; 97 % ##TABLE_END

(1) Represents amortization of intangible assets. 

(2) Fiscal 2023 includes $296 million for a goodwill impairment and $50 million for severance. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Experiences 

Operating results for the Experiences segment are as follows: 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 % Change Better (Worse) Revenues Theme park admissions $ 11,171 &#160; &#160; $ 10,423 &#160; 7 % Resorts and vacations 8,375 &#160; &#160; 7,949 &#160; 5 % Parks &#38; Experiences merchandise, food and beverage 8,039 &#160; &#160; 7,712 &#160; 4 % Merchandise licensing and retail 4,307 &#160; &#160; 4,358 &#160; (1) % Parks licensing and other 2,259 &#160; &#160; 2,107 &#160; 7 % Total revenues 34,151 &#160; &#160; 32,549 &#160; 5 % Operating expenses (18,356) &#160; (17,129) &#160; (7) % Selling, general, administrative and other (3,944) &#160; (3,675) &#160; (7) % Depreciation and amortization (2,579) &#160; (2,789) &#160; 8 % Equity in the loss of investees &#8212; &#160; &#160; (2) &#160; 100 % Operating Income $ 9,272 &#160; &#160; $ 8,954 &#160; 4 % ##TABLE_END

Revenues - Theme park admissions 

The increase in theme park admissions revenue was due to increases of 5% from higher average per capita ticket revenue and 2% from attendance growth. 

Revenues - Resorts and vacations 

Growth in resorts and vacations revenue was primarily attributable to increases of 3% from higher average ticket prices for cruise line sailings, 1% from an increase in average daily hotel room rates and 1% from higher occupied hotel room nights, partially offset by a decrease of 1% from lower unit sales at Disney Vacation Club. 

Revenues - Parks &#38; Experiences merchandise, food and beverage 

Parks &#38; Experiences merchandise, food and beverage revenue growth was due to increases of 2% from higher volumes and 2% from higher average guest spending. 

Revenues - Merchandise licensing and retail 

Lower merchandise licensing and retail revenue was due to decreases of 1% from an unfavorable Foreign Exchange Impact and 1% from retail, partially offset by an increase of 1% from merchandise licensing. Lower retail revenue was due to a decrease in online sales. Growth in licensing revenue was due to higher royalties from merchandise sales, partially offset by lower minimum guarantee shortfall recognition. 

Revenues - Parks licensing and other 

The increase in parks licensing and other revenue was attributable to higher sponsorship revenues, a favorable Foreign Exchange Impact and higher royalties from Tokyo Disney Resort. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Key Metrics 

In addition to revenue, costs and operating income, management uses the following key metrics to analyze trends and evaluate the overall performance of our theme parks and resorts, and we believe these metrics are useful to investors in analyzing the business : 

##TABLE_START &#160; Domestic International (1) 

&#160; 2024 2023 2024 2023 Parks Increase (decrease) Attendance (2) 

1 % 6 % 9 % 55 % Per Capita Guest Spending (3) 

3 % 3 % 4 % 21 % Hotels Occupancy (4) 

85 % 85 % 82 % 74 % Available Room Nights (in thousands) (5) 

10,193 10,096 3,178 3,178 Change in Per Room Guest Spending (6) 

3 % &#8212; % 2 % 14 % ##TABLE_END

(1) Per capita guest spending growth rate and per room guest spending growth rate exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 

(2) Attendance is used to analyze volume trends at our theme parks and is based on the number of unique daily entries, i.e. a person visiting multiple theme parks in a single day is counted only once. Our attendance count includes complimentary entries but excludes entries by children under the age of three. 

(3) Per capita guest spending is used to analyze guest spending trends and is defined as total revenue from ticket sales and sales of food, beverage and merchandise in our theme parks, divided by total theme park attendance. 

(4) Occupancy is used to analyze the usage of available capacity at hotels and is defined as the number of room nights occupied by guests as a percentage of available hotel room nights. 

(5) Available hotel room nights are defined as the total number of room nights that are available at our hotels and at DVC properties located at our theme parks and resorts that are not utilized by DVC members. Available hotel room nights include rooms temporarily taken out of service. 

(6) Per room guest spending is used to analyze guest spending at our hotels and is defined as total revenue from room rentals and sales of food, beverage and merchandise at our hotels, divided by total occupied hotel room nights. In the third quarter of the prior fiscal year, the Company revised its method of allocating revenue on the sales of Disneyland Paris vacation packages between hotel room revenue and admissions revenue. The new method resulted in a decrease in the percentage of revenue allocated to hotel rooms. If we had applied the new method in the first six months of the prior year, the impact would have been a decrease of approximatel y $30 million i n the prior year. 

Operating expenses 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 % Change Better (Worse) Operating labor $ (8,392) &#160; $ (7,550) (11) % Infrastructure costs (3,363) (3,127) (8) % Cost of goods sold and distribution costs (3,319) (3,357) 1 % Other operating expenses (3,282) (3,095) (6) % $ (18,356) $ (17,129) &#160; (7) % ##TABLE_END

The increase in operating labor was primarily due to inflation and higher volumes. Higher infrastructure costs were primarily attributable to higher technology spending and an increase in operations support costs. The increase in other operating expenses was primarily due to an unfavorable Foreign Exchange Impact, higher volumes and increased operations support costs. 

Selling, general, administrative and other 

Selling, general, administrative and other costs increased $269 million from $3,675 million to $3,944 million, driven by inflation and increased marketing costs for new guest offerings, partially offset by the comparison to a loss in the prior year on the disposal of our ownership interest in Villages Nature. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Depreciation and amortization 

Depreciation and amortization decreased $210 million from $2,789 million to $2,579 million, due to the comparison to depreciation in the prior year related to the closure of Star Wars: Galactic Starcruiser. 

Operating Income from Experiences 

Segment operating income increased $318 million, from $8,954 million to $9,272 million primarily due to growth at international parks and experiences. 

Supplemental revenue and operating income 

The following table presents supplemental revenue and operating income detail for the Experiences segment: 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 % Change Better (Worse) Supplemental revenue detail Parks &#38; Experiences Domestic $ 23,596 &#160; &#160; $ 22,677 &#160; 4 % International 6,183 &#160; &#160; 5,475 &#160; 13 % Consumer Products 

4,372 &#160; &#160; 4,397 &#160; (1) % $ 34,151 &#160; &#160; $ 32,549 &#160; 5 % 

Supplemental operating income detail 

Parks &#38; Experiences Domestic $ 5,878 &#160; &#160; $ 5,876 &#160; &#8212; % International 1,354 &#160; &#160; 1,104 &#160; 23 % Consumer Products 

2,040 &#160; &#160; 1,974 &#160; 3 % $ 9,272 &#160; &#160; $ 8,954 &#160; 4 % ##TABLE_END

Items Excluded from Segment Operating Income Related to Experiences 

The following table presents supplemental information for items related to Experiences that are excluded from segment operating income: 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 % Change Better (Worse) Restructuring and impairment charges (1) 

$ (331) &#160; $ (25) &#160; &#62;(100) % Charge related to a legal ruling 

(65) &#160; (101) &#160; 36 % TFCF acquisition amortization 

(7) &#160; (8) &#160; 13 % ##TABLE_END

(1) Charges for the current year were due to an impairment of assets at our retail business. 

CORPORATE AND UNALLOCATED SHARED EXPENSES 

Corporate and unallocated shared expenses are as follows: 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 % Change Better (Worse) Corporate and unallocated shared expenses $ (1,435) $ (1,147) (25) % ##TABLE_END

The increase in corporate and unallocated shared expenses was primarily due to higher labor costs, increases in professional services and costs related to our proxy solicitation. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

The change in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash is as follows: 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 

Cash provided by operations 

$ 13,971 &#160; &#160; $ 9,866 &#160; &#160; 

Cash used in investing activities 

( 6,881 ) &#160; ( 4,641 ) &#160; 

Cash used in financing activities 

( 15,288 ) &#160; ( 2,724 ) &#160; Impact of exchange rates on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 

65 &#160; &#160; 73 &#160; &#160; Change in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (8,133) &#160; $ 2,574 &#160; ##TABLE_END

Operating Activities 

Cash provided by operating activities increased 42% or $4.1 billion to $14.0 billion in the current year compared to $9.9 billion in the prior year. The increase was driven by lower film and television production spending and the timing of payments for sports rights. The increase also reflected collateral receipts related to our hedging program in the current year compared to collateral payments in the prior year, higher operating cash flows at Entertainment and the comparison to a payment in the prior year related to the termination of content licenses in fiscal 2022. The increase in operating cash flows at Entertainment was driven by lower cash disbursements due to a decrease in operating expenses. These increases were partially offset by higher cash tax payments in the current year compared to the prior year. Fiscal 2023 U.S. federal and California state tax payments were deferred and paid in fiscal 2024 pursuant to relief provided by the Internal Revenue Service and California State Board of Equalization as a result of 2023 winter storms in California. In addition, a portion of fiscal 2024 U.S. federal and Florida state taxes was paid in fiscal 2024 and the remainder has been deferred to fiscal 2025 pursuant to relief provided by the Internal Revenue Service and Florida Department of Revenue as a result of 2024 hurricanes in Florida. 

Depreciation expense is as follows: 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 

Entertainment 

$ 681 $ 669 

Sports 

39 73 

Experiences 

Domestic 1,744 2,011 International 726 669 Total Experiences 

2,470 2,680 Corporate 244 204 Total depreciation expense $ 3,434 $ 3,626 ##TABLE_END

Amortization of intangible assets is as follows: 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 

Entertainment 

$ 53 $ 87 

Experiences 

109 109 TFCF and Hulu 1,394 1,547 Total amortization of intangible assets $ 1,556 $ 1,743 ##TABLE_END

Produced and licensed content costs 

The Entertainment and Sports segments incur costs to produce and license film, episodic, sports and other content. Production costs include spend on content internally produced at our studios such as live-action and animated films, episodic series, specials, shorts and theatrical stage plays. Production costs also include original content commissioned from third-party studios. Programming costs include content rights licensed from third parties for use on the Company&#8217;s sports and general entertainment networks and DTC streaming services. Programming assets are generally recorded when the programming becomes available to us with a corresponding increase in programming liabilities. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

The Company&#8217;s production and programming activity for fiscal 2024 and 2023 are as follows: 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 Beginning balances: Production and programming assets $ 36,593 &#160; &#160; $ 37,667 &#160; Programming liabilities (3,792) &#160; (3,940) &#160; 32,801 &#160; &#160; 33,727 &#160; Spending: Licensed programming and rights 13,619 &#160; &#160; 14,851 &#160; Produced content 9,816 &#160; &#160; 12,323 &#160; 23,435 &#160; &#160; 27,174 &#160; Amortization: Licensed programming and rights (14,027) &#160; (13,405) &#160; Produced content (10,454) &#160; (11,861) &#160; (24,481) &#160; (25,266) &#160; Change in production and programming costs (1,046) &#160; 1,908 &#160; 

Content impairment 

(187) &#160; (2,266) &#160; 

Produced and licensed content reclassified to assets held for sale 

(1,084) &#160; &#8212; &#160; Other non-cash activity 233 &#160; &#160; (568) &#160; Ending balances: Production and programming assets 34,409 &#160; &#160; 36,593 &#160; Programming liabilities (3,692) &#160; (3,792) &#160; $ 30,717 &#160; &#160; $ 32,801 &#160; ##TABLE_END

The Company currently expects its fiscal 2025 spend on produced and licensed content to be approximately $24 billion including sports rights but excluding Star India. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company&#8217;s contractual commitments to acquire sports and broadcast programming. 

Commitments and guarantees 

The Company has various commitments and guarantees, such as long-term leases, purchase commitments and other executory contracts, that are disclosed in the footnotes to the financial statements. See Notes 14 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding these commitments. 

Legal and Tax Matters 

As disclosed in Notes 9 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company has exposure for certain tax and legal matters. 

Investing Activities 

Investing activities, which consist principally of investments in parks, resorts and other property and acquisition and divestiture activity, for fiscal 2024 and 2023 are as follows: 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 

Entertainment 

$ 977 &#160; $ 1,032 &#160; 

Sports 

10 &#160; 15 &#160; 

Experiences 

Domestic 2,710 &#160; 2,203 &#160; International 949 &#160; 822 &#160; Total Experiences 

3,659 &#160; &#160; 3,025 &#160; Corporate 766 &#160; 897 &#160; Total investments in parks, resorts and other property 

5,412 &#160; 4,969 

Cash used in (provided by) other investing activities, net 

1,469 &#160; (328) Cash used in investing activities 

$ 6,881 &#160; &#160; $ 4,641 &#160; ##TABLE_END

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Investments in Parks, Resorts and Other Property 

Capital expenditures at Entertainment primarily reflect investments in technology and in facilities and equipment for expanding and upgrading broadcast centers, production facilities and television station facilities. 

Capital expenditures at Experiences are principally for theme park and resort expansion, new attractions, cruise ships, capital improvements and systems infrastructure. The increase in capital expenditures in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 was due to higher spending on cruise ship fleet expansion, theme park and resort expansion and new attractions. 

Capital expenditures at Corporate primarily reflect investments in facilities, information technology infrastructure and equipment. The decrease in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 was due to lower spending on facilities. 

The Company currently expects its fiscal 2025 capital expenditures to total approximately $8 billion compared to fiscal 2024 capital expenditures of $5 billion. The projected increase in capital expenditures is primarily due to higher spending at Experiences, attributable to continued investment in cruise ship fleet expansion and new guest offerings at our theme parks. 

Other Investing Activities 

Cash used in other investing activities was $1.5 billion in fiscal 2024 reflecting an investment in Epic Games, Inc. Cash provided by other investing activities was $328 million for fiscal 2023 reflecting proceeds from the sale of investments. 

Financing Activities 

Financing activities for fiscal 2024 and 2023 are as follows: 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

2024 2023 

Change in borrowings 

$ (1,400) $ (1,783) Dividends 

( 1,366 ) &#8212; &#160; 

Repurchases of common stock 

( 2,992 ) &#8212; &#160; Activities related to noncontrolling and redeemable noncontrolling interests (1) 

(9,156) (707) Cash used in other financing activities, net (2) 

(374) (234) Cash used in financing activities 

$ (15,288) &#160; $ (2,724) &#160; ##TABLE_END

(1) Activities related to noncontrolling and redeemable noncontrolling interests in the current year were due to an $8.6 billion payment for Hulu&#8217;s redeemable noncontrolling interest and $0.5 billion of dividend payments to noncontrolling interest holders. Activities in the prior year were due to a $0.9 billion payment for BAMTech LLC&#8217;s redeemable noncontrolling interest and $0.5 billion of dividend payments to noncontrolling interest holders, partially offset by a $0.7 billion contribution from Hearst to acquire a 20% interest in our DTC sports business. 

(2) Primarily consists of equity award activity. 

Borrowings activities and other 

During the year ended September 28, 2024, the Company&#8217;s borrowing activity was as follows: ##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

September 30, 2023 Borrowings Payments Other Activity September 28, 2024 Commercial paper with original maturities less than three months (1) 

$ 289 &#160; $ 431 &#160; &#160; $ &#8212; &#160; &#160; $ 7 &#160; &#160; $ 727 &#160; &#160; Commercial paper with original maturities greater than three months 

1,187 &#160; 4,305 &#160; &#160; ( 3,204 ) &#160; 25 &#160; &#160; 2,313 &#160; &#160; U.S. dollar denominated notes (2) 

43,504 &#160; &#8212; &#160; (2,870) &#160; (138) &#160; 40,496 &#160; &#160; Asia Theme Parks borrowings (3) 

1,308 &#160; &#8212; &#160; (62) &#160; 46 &#160; 1,292 &#160; &#160; Foreign currency denominated debt and other (4) 

143 &#160; 132 &#160; (132) &#160; 844 &#160; 987 &#160; &#160; $ 46,431 &#160; $ 4,868 &#160; $ (6,268) &#160; $ 784 &#160; $ 45,815 &#160; &#160; ##TABLE_END

(1) Borrowings and reductions of borrowings are reported net. 

(2) The other activity is primarily due to the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments and debt issuance fees. 

(3) See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding commitments to fund the Asia Theme Parks. 

(4) The other activity is due to market value adjustments for debt with qualifying hedges. 

See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of the Company&#8217;s borrowing activities in fiscal 2024 and information regarding the Company&#8217;s bank facilities. The Company may use cash balances, operating cash flows, 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

commercial paper borrowings up to the amount of its unused $12.25 billion bank facilities and incremental term debt issuances to retire or refinance other borrowings before or as they come due. 

See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of dividends and share repurchases in fiscal 2024. There were no dividends paid or share repurchases in fiscal 2023. The Company is targeting a total of $3 billion in share repurchases in fiscal 2025. 

The Company may be required to pay an incremental amount for Hulu depending on a final determination of Hulu&#8217;s fair value. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the transactions with noncontrolling interest holders. 

The Company&#8217;s operating cash flow and access to the capital markets can be impacted by factors outside of its control. We believe that the Company&#8217;s financial condition is strong and that its cash balances, other liquid assets, operating cash flows, access to debt and equity capital markets and borrowing capacity under current bank facilities, taken together, provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements, contractual obligations, upcoming debt maturities as well as future capital expenditures related to the expansion of existing businesses and development of new projects. In addition, the Company could undertake other measures to ensure sufficient liquidity, such as raising additional financing, reducing or not declaring future dividends; reducing or stopping share repurchases; reducing capital spending; reducing film and episodic content investments; or implementing further cost-saving initiatives. 

The Company&#8217;s borrowing costs can also be impacted by short- and long-term debt ratings assigned by nationally recognized rating agencies, which are based, in significant part, on the Company&#8217;s performance as measured by certain credit metrics such as leverage and interest coverage ratios. As of September 28, 2024, Moody&#8217;s Ratings&#8217; long- and short-term debt ratings for the Company were A2 and P-1 (Stable), respectively, S&#38;P Global Ratings&#8217; long- and short-term debt ratings for the Company were A- and A-2 (Positive), respectively, and Fitch Ratings&#8217; long- and short-term debt ratings for the Company were A- and F2 (Stable), respectively. The Company&#8217;s bank facilities contain only one financial covenant, relating to interest coverage of three times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, including both intangible amortization and amortization of our film and television production and programming costs. On September 28, 2024, the Company met this covenant by a significant margin. The Company&#8217;s bank facilities also specifically exclude certain entities, including the Asia Theme Parks, from any representations, covenants or events of default. 

DEVELOPMENTS AND TRENDS 

Star India Transaction 

The Company and RIL plan to close a transaction on or about November 14, 2024, which will form a joint venture that combines our Star-branded and other general entertainment and sports television channels and Disney+ Hotstar service in India (Star India) and certain media and entertainment businesses of RIL (see Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). The Company will have a 37% interest in the joint venture. The Company has consolidated, and will continue to consolidate, the income statement and cash flow activities of Star India through the closing date, at which time the Company will recognize on its balance sheet the 37% investment at fair value. In addition, the Company will begin recognizing its proportional share of the joint venture&#8217;s results in &#8220;Equity in the income of investees, net&#8221; in the Consolidated Statement of Income. The equity earnings of the joint venture will not be reported in our segments&#8217; operating results. 

Trends 

To drive growth at our sports and entertainment businesses, we are, among other things, making strategic investments in our DTC offerings. Although there can be no assurances these investments will be successful, we expect that they will lead to growth in subscription fees and advertising revenues that will more than offset impacts on affiliate fees and advertising revenue from declines in linear network subscribers and the related decrease in average viewership, which we expect will continue. 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 

We believe that the application of the following accounting policies, which are important to our financial position and results of operations, require significant judgments and estimates on the part of management. For a summary of our significant accounting policies, including the accounting policies discussed below, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Produced and Acquired/Licensed Content Costs 

We amortize and test for impairment capitalized film and television production costs based on whether the content is predominantly monetized individually or as a group. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 

Production costs that are classified as individual are amortized based upon the ratio of the current period&#8217;s revenues to the estimated remaining total revenues (Ultimate Revenues). 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

With respect to produced films intended for theatrical release, the most sensitive factor affecting our estimate of Ultimate Revenues is theatrical performance. Revenues derived from other markets subsequent to the theatrical release are generally highly correlated with theatrical performance. Theatrical performance varies primarily based upon the public interest and demand for a particular film, the popularity of competing films at the time of release and the level of marketing effort. Upon a film&#8217;s release and determination of the theatrical performance, the Company&#8217;s estimates of revenues from succeeding windows and markets, which may include imputed license fees for content that is used on our DTC streaming services, are revised based on historical relationships and an analysis of current market trends. 

With respect to capitalized television production costs that are classified as individual, the most sensitive factor affecting estimates of Ultimate Revenues is program ratings of the content on our licensees&#8217; platforms. Program ratings, which are an indication of market acceptance, directly affect the program&#8217;s ability to generate advertising and subscriber revenues and are correlated with the license fees we can charge for the content in subsequent windows and for subsequent seasons. 

Ultimate Revenues are reassessed each reporting period and the impact of any changes on amortization of production cost is accounted for as if the change occurred at the beginning of the current fiscal year. If our estimate of Ultimate Revenues decreases, amortization of costs may be accelerated or result in an impairment. Conversely, if our estimate of Ultimate Revenues increases, cost amortization may be slowed. 

Production costs classified as individual are tested for impairment at the individual title level by comparing that title&#8217;s unamortized costs to the present value of discounted cash flows directly attributable to the title. To the extent the title&#8217;s unamortized costs exceed the present value of discounted cash flows, an impairment charge is recorded for the excess. 

Produced content costs that are part of a group and acquired/licensed content costs are amortized based on projected usage, typically resulting in an accelerated or straight-line amortization pattern. The determination of projected usage requires judgment and is reviewed on a regular basis for changes. Adjustments to projected usage are applied prospectively in the period of the change. Historical viewing patterns are the most significant input into determining the projected usage, and significant judgment is required in using historical viewing patterns to derive projected usage. If projected usage changes we may need to accelerate or slow the recognition of amortization expense. 

Cost of content that is predominantly monetized as a group is tested for impairment by comparing the present value of the discounted cash flows of the group to the aggregate unamortized costs of the group. The group is established by identifying the lowest level for which cash flows are independent of the cash flows of other produced and licensed content. If the unamortized costs exceed the present value of discounted cash flows, an impairment charge is recorded for the excess and allocated to individual titles based on the relative carrying value of each title in the group. If there are no plans to continue to use an individual film or television program that is part of a group, the unamortized cost of the individual title is written down to its estimated fair value. Licensed content is included as part of the group within which it is monetized for purposes of impairment testing. 

The amortization of multi-year sports rights is based on projections of revenues for each season relative to projections of total revenues over the contract period (estimated relative value). Projected revenues include advertising revenue and an allocation of affiliate revenue. If the annual contractual payments related to each season approximate each season&#8217;s estimated relative value, we expense the related contractual payments during the applicable season. If estimated relative values by year were to change significantly, amortization of our sports rights costs may be accelerated or slowed. 

Revenue Recognition 

The Company has revenue recognition policies for its various operating segments that are appropriate to the circumstances of each business. Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for our revenue recognition policies. 

Pension and Postretirement Medical Plan Actuarial Assumptions 

The Company&#8217;s pension and postretirement medical benefit obligations and related costs are calculated using a number of actuarial assumptions. Two critical assumptions, the discount rate and the expected return on plan assets, are important elements of expense and/or liability measurement, which we evaluate annually. Other assumptions include the healthcare cost trend rate and employee demographic factors such as retirement patterns, mortality, turnover and rate of compensation increase. 

The discount rate enables us to state expected future cash payments for benefits as a present value on the measurement date. A lower discount rate increases the present value of benefit obligations and increases pension and postretirement medical expense. The guideline for setting this rate is a high-quality long-term corporate bond rate. We decreased our discount rate to 5.06 % at the end of fiscal 2024 from 5.94 % at the end of fiscal 2023 to reflect market interest rate conditions at our fiscal 2024 year-end measurement date. The Company&#8217;s discount rate was determined by considering yield curves constructed of a large population of high-quality corporate bonds and reflects the matching of the plans&#8217; liability cash flows to the yield curves. A one percentage point decrease in the assumed discount rate would increase total benefit expense for fiscal 2025 by approximately $0.2 billion and would increase the projected benefit obligation at September 28, 2024 by approximately $2.4 billion. A one 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

percentage point increase in the assumed discount rate would decrease total benefit expense and the projected benefit obligation by approximately $0.2 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively. 

To determine the expected long-term rate of return on the plan assets, we consider the current and expected asset allocation, as well as historical and expected returns on each plan asset class. Our expected return on plan assets is 7.25%. A lower expected rate of return on plan assets will increase pension and postretirement medical expense. A one percentage point change in the long-term asset return assumption would impact fiscal 2025 annual expense by approximately $ 168 million. 

Goodwill, Other Intangible Assets, Long-Lived Assets and Investments 

The Company is required to test goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis and if current events or circumstances require, on an interim basis. The Company performs its annual test of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment in its fiscal fourth quarter. 

Goodwill is allocated to various reporting units, which are an operating segment or one level below the operating segment. To test goodwill for impairment, the Company first performs a qualitative assessment to determine if it is more likely than not that the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value. If it is, a quantitative assessment is required. Alternatively, the Company may bypass the qualitative assessment and perform a quantitative impairment test. 

The qualitative assessment requires the consideration of factors such as recent market transactions, macroeconomic conditions and changes in projected future cash flows of the reporting unit. 

The quantitative assessment compares the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying amount, and to the extent the carrying amount exceeds the fair value, an impairment of goodwill is recognized for the excess up to the amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. 

The impairment test for goodwill requires judgment related to the identification of reporting units, determining whether reporting units should be aggregated, the assignment of assets and liabilities including goodwill to reporting units, and the determination of fair value of the reporting units. 

In fiscal 2024, we determined that our entertainment businesses, including DTC services, linear networks, and content sales/licensing, should be aggregated into a single reporting unit due to their interdependencies, including shared operating costs such as content, marketing, and technology, the similarity of products and services delivered, customers served and distribution channels used, and projected long term financial performance (e.g., operating margins). 

For our annual impairment test, we bypassed the qualitative test and performed a quantitative assessment of goodwill for impairment. 

To determine the fair value of our reporting units, we generally use a present value technique (discounted cash flows) corroborated by market multiples when available and as appropriate. The discounted cash flow analyses are sensitive to our estimated projected future cash flows as well as the discount rates used to calculate their present value. Our future cash flows are based on internal forecasts for each reporting unit, which consider projected inflation and other economic indicators, as well as industry growth projections. Discount rates are determined based on the inherent risks of the underlying operations. 

Significant judgments and assumptions in the discounted cash flow model used to determine fair value relate to future revenues and certain operating expenses, operating margins, terminal growth rates and discount rates. We believe our estimates are consistent with how a marketplace participant would value our businesses. Changes to these assumptions and shifts in market trends or macroeconomic events could impact test results in the future. 

As discussed in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, in the second and fourth quarters of fiscal 2024, the Company recorded non-cash goodwill impairment charges of $0.7 billion and $0.6 billion, respectively, related to our entertainment linear networks reporting unit prior to aggregating all of our entertainment reporting units into a single reporting unit in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024. The carrying amount of the aggregated entertainment reporting unit goodwill after these impairments is approximately $51 billion. 

After the impairments, the fair value of the entertainment reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount by less than 10%. An approximate 40 basis point increase in the discount rate or an approximate 6% reduction in projected annual cash flows used to determine the fair value of the entertainment reporting unit would effectively eliminate the excess fair value over carrying amount. 

To test other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, the Company first performs a qualitative assessment to determine if it is more likely than not that the carrying amount of each of its indefinite-lived intangible assets exceeds its fair value. If it is, a quantitative assessment is required. Alternatively, the Company may bypass the qualitative assessment and perform a quantitative impairment test. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

The qualitative assessment requires the consideration of factors such as recent market transactions, macroeconomic conditions and changes in projected future cash flows. 

The quantitative assessment compares the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset to its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of an indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized for the excess. Fair values of indefinite-lived intangible assets are determined based on discounted cash flows or appraised values, as appropriate. 

The Company tests long-lived assets, including amortizable intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances (triggering events) indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Once a triggering event has occurred, the impairment test employed is based on whether the Company&#8217;s intent is to hold the asset for continued use or to hold the asset for sale. The impairment test for assets held for use requires a comparison of the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated over the useful life of the significant assets of an asset group to the carrying amount of the asset group. An asset group is generally established by identifying the lowest level of cash flows generated by a group of assets that are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and could include assets used across multiple businesses. If the carrying amount of an asset group exceeds the estimated undiscounted future cash flows, an impairment would be measured as the difference between the fair value of the asset group and the carrying amount of the asset group. For assets held for sale, to the extent the carrying amount is greater than the asset&#8217;s fair value less costs to sell, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference. Determining whether a long-lived asset is impaired requires various estimates and assumptions, including whether a triggering event has occurred, the identification of asset groups, estimates of future cash flows and the discount rate used to determine fair values. 

As discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company recorded $1.5 billion of non-cash impairment charges related to the Star India Transaction in fiscal 2024 to reflect Star India at its estimated fair value less costs to sell. 

The Company has investments in equity securities. For equity securities that do not have a readily determinable fair value, we consider forecasted financial performance of the investee companies, as well as volatility inherent in the external markets for these investments. If these forecasts are not met, impairment charges may be recorded. 

The Company tested its indefinite-lived intangible assets, long-lived assets and investments for impairment and recorded non-cash impairment charges of $0.7 billion and $2.3 billion in fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively. The fiscal 2024 charges related to impairments of retail assets, content assets, and equity investments. The fiscal 2023 charges primarily related to content impairments resulting from a strategic change in our approach to content curation. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

Allowance for Credit Losses 

We evaluate our allowance for credit losses and estimate collectability of accounts receivable based on historical bad debt experience, our assessment of the financial condition of individual companies with which we do business, current market conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts of future economic conditions. In times of economic turmoil our estimates and judgments with respect to the collectability of our receivables are subject to greater uncertainty than in more stable periods. If our estimate of uncollectible accounts is too low, costs and expenses may increase in future periods, and if it is too high, costs and expenses may decrease in future periods. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion. 

Contingencies and Litigation 

We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings and, as required, have accrued estimates of the probable and estimable losses for the resolution of these proceedings. These estimates are based upon an analysis of potential results, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies and have been developed in consultation with outside counsel as appropriate. From time to time, we are also involved in other contingent matters for which we accrue estimates for a probable and estimable loss. It is possible, however, that future results of operations for any particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by changes in our assumptions or the effectiveness of our strategies related to legal proceedings or our assumptions regarding other contingent matters. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on litigation exposure. 

Income Tax 

As a matter of course, the Company is regularly audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. From time to time, these audits result in proposed assessments. Our determinations regarding the recognition of income tax benefits are made in consultation with outside tax and legal counsel, where appropriate, and are based upon the technical merits of our tax positions in consideration of applicable tax statutes and related interpretations and precedents and upon the expected outcome of proceedings (or negotiations) with taxing and legal authorities. The tax benefits ultimately realized by the Company may differ from those recognized in our future financial statements based on a number of factors, including the Company&#8217;s decision to 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

settle rather than litigate a matter, relevant legal precedent related to similar matters and the Company&#8217;s success in supporting its filing positions with taxing authorities. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion. 

New Accounting Pronouncements 

See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. 

DTC PRODUCT DESCRIPTIONS, KEY DEFINITIONS AND SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION 

Product Offerings 

In the U.S., Disney+, ESPN+ and Hulu SVOD Only are each offered as a standalone service or as part of various multi-product offerings. Hulu Live TV + SVOD includes Disney+ and ESPN+. Disney+ is available in more than 150 countries and territories outside the U.S. and Canada. In India and certain other Southeast Asian countries, the service is branded Disney+ Hotstar. In certain Latin American countries prior to July 2024, we offered Disney+ as well as Star+, a general entertainment SVOD service, which was available on a standalone basis or together with Disney+ (Combo+). At the end of June 2024, we merged these services into a single Disney+ product offering. Depending on the market, our services can be purchased on our websites or through third-party platforms/apps or are available via wholesale arrangements. 

Paid Subscribers 

Paid subscribers reflect subscribers for which we recognized subscription revenue. Certain product offerings provide the option for an extra member to be added to an account (extra member add-on). These extra members are not counted as paid subscribers. Subscribers cease to be a paid subscriber as of their effective cancellation date or as a result of a failed payment method. Subscribers to multi-product offerings in the U.S. are counted as a paid subscriber for each of the Company's services included in the multi-product offering and subscribers to Hulu Live TV + SVOD are counted as one paid subscriber for each of the Hulu Live TV + SVOD, Disney+ and ESPN+ services. In Latin America prior to July 2024, if a subscriber had either the standalone Disney+ or Star+ service or subscribed to Combo+, the subscriber was counted as one Disney+ paid subscriber. Subscribers include those who receive an entitlement to a service through wholesale arrangements, including those for which the service is available to each subscriber of an existing content distribution tier. When we aggregate the total number of paid subscribers across our DTC streaming services, we refer to them as paid subscriptions. 

International Disney+ (excluding Disney+ Hotstar) 

International Disney+ (excluding Disney+ Hotstar) includes the Disney+ service outside the U.S. and Canada. 

Average Monthly Revenue Per Paid Subscriber 

Hulu and ESPN+ average monthly revenue per paid subscriber is calculated based on the average of the monthly average paid subscribers for each month in the period. The monthly average paid subscribers is calculated as the sum of the beginning of the month and end of the month paid subscriber count, divided by two. Disney+ average monthly revenue per paid subscriber is calculated using a daily average of paid subscribers for the period. Revenue includes subscription fees, advertising (excluding revenue earned from selling advertising spots to other Company businesses), premium and feature add-on revenue and extra member add-on revenue but excludes Pay-Per-View revenue. Advertising revenue generated by content on one DTC streaming service that is accessed through another DTC streaming service by subscribers to both streaming services is allocated between both streaming services. The average revenue per paid subscriber is net of discounts on offerings that carry more than one service. Revenue is allocated to each service based on the relative retail or wholesale price of each service on a standalone basis. Hulu Live TV + SVOD revenue is allocated to the SVOD services based on the wholesale price of the Hulu SVOD Only, Disney+ and ESPN+ multi-product offering. In general, wholesale arrangements have a lower average monthly revenue per paid subscriber than subscribers that we acquire directly or through third-party platforms. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Supplemental information about paid subscribers (1) : 

##TABLE_START (in millions) September 28, 2024 September 30, 2023 Domestic (U.S. and Canada) standalone 59.6 55.5 

Domestic (U.S. and Canada) multi-product (1) 

27.1 22.6 

Domestic (U.S. and Canada) (2) 

86.7 78.1 

International (3)(4) 

66.7 66.1 Total (2) 

153.4 144.2 ##TABLE_END

(1) At September 28, 2024, there were 19.7 million and 7.4 million subscribers to multi-product offerings with two and three of the Company&#8217;s services, respectively. At September 30, 2023, there were 20.3 million and 2.3 million subscribers to multi-product offerings with two and three of the Company&#8217;s services, respectively. 

(2) Total may not equal the sum of the column due to rounding. 

(3) Disney+ Hotstar is not included in any of the Company&#8217;s multi-product offerings. 

(4) The services within the Combo+ multi-product offering were merged into a single Disney+ product offering in fiscal 2024. The Combo+ subscribers at September 30, 2023 were 10.8 million. 

SUPPLEMENTAL GUARANTOR FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

On March 20, 2019, as part of the acquisition of TFCF, The Walt Disney Company (&#8220;TWDC&#8221;) became the ultimate parent of TWDC Enterprises 18 Corp. (formerly known as The Walt Disney Company) (&#8220;Legacy Disney&#8221;). Legacy Disney and TWDC are collectively referred to as &#8220;Obligor Group&#8221;, and individually, as a &#8220;Guarantor&#8221;. Concurrent with the close of the TFCF acquisition, $16.8 billion of TFCF&#8217;s assumed public debt (which then constituted 96% of such debt) was exchanged for senior notes of TWDC (the &#8220;exchange notes&#8221;) issued pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the &#8220;Securities Act&#8221;), pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of March 20, 2019, between TWDC, Legacy Disney, as guarantor, and Citibank, N.A., as trustee (the &#8220;TWDC Indenture&#8221;) and guaranteed by Legacy Disney. On November 26, 2019, $14.0 billion of the outstanding exchange notes were exchanged for new senior notes of TWDC registered under the Securities Act, issued pursuant to the TWDC Indenture and guaranteed by Legacy Disney. In addition, contemporaneously with the closing of the March 20, 2019 exchange offer, TWDC entered into a guarantee of the registered debt securities issued by Legacy Disney under the Indenture dated as of September 24, 2001 between Legacy Disney and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the &#8220;2001 Trustee&#8221;) (as amended by the first supplemental indenture among Legacy Disney, as issuer, TWDC, as guarantor, and the 2001 Trustee, as trustee). 

Other subsidiaries of the Company do not guarantee the registered debt securities of either TWDC or Legacy Disney (such subsidiaries are referred to as the &#8220;non-Guarantors&#8221;). The par value and carrying value of total outstanding and guaranteed registered debt securities of the Obligor Group at September 28, 2024 was as follows: 

##TABLE_START TWDC Legacy Disney 

($ in millions) 

Par Value Carrying Value Par Value Carrying Value Registered debt with unconditional guarantee $ 32,360 &#160; $ 33,148 &#160; $ 8,125 &#160; $ 8,024 &#160; ##TABLE_END

The guarantees by TWDC and Legacy Disney are full and unconditional and cover all payment obligations arising under the guaranteed registered debt securities. The guarantees may be released and discharged upon (i) as a general matter, the indebtedness for borrowed money of the consolidated subsidiaries of TWDC in aggregate constituting no more than 10% of all consolidated indebtedness for borrowed money of TWDC and its subsidiaries (subject to certain exclusions), (ii) upon the sale, transfer or disposition of all or substantially all of the equity interests or all or substantially all, or substantially as an entirety, the assets of Legacy Disney to a third party, and (iii) other customary events constituting a discharge of a guarantor&#8217;s obligations. In addition, in the case of Legacy Disney&#8217;s guarantee of registered debt securities issued by TWDC, Legacy Disney may be released and discharged from its guarantee at any time Legacy Disney is not a borrower, issuer or guarantor under certain material bank facilities or any debt securities. 

Operations are conducted almost entirely through the Company&#8217;s subsidiaries. Accordingly, the Obligor Group&#8217;s cash flow and ability to service its debt, including the public debt, are dependent upon the earnings of the Company&#8217;s subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings to the Obligor Group, whether by dividends, loans or otherwise. Holders of the guaranteed registered debt securities have a direct claim only against the Obligor Group. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Set forth below are summarized financial information for the Obligor Group on a combined basis after elimination of (i) intercompany transactions and balances between TWDC and Legacy Disney and (ii) equity in the earnings from and investments in any subsidiary that is a non-Guarantor. This summarized financial information has been prepared and presented pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-X Rule 13-01, &#8220;Financial Disclosures about Guarantors and Issuers of Guaranteed Securities&#8221; and is not intended to present the financial position or results of operations of the Obligor Group in accordance with U.S. GAAP. 

##TABLE_START 

Results of operations ($ in millions) 

2024 Revenues $ &#8212; &#160; Costs and expenses &#8212; &#160; Net income (loss) (2,497) &#160; Net income (loss) attributable to TWDC shareholders (2,497) &#160; ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START 

Balance Sheet ($ in millions) 

September 28, 2024 September 30, 2023 Current assets $ 2,767 $ 8,544 Noncurrent assets 3,336 2,927 Current liabilities 7,640 5,746 Noncurrent liabilities (excluding intercompany to non-Guarantors) 40,608 43,307 Intercompany payables to non-Guarantors 157,925 154,018 ##TABLE_END



Instruction: 
According to the given information, 
1. Briefly describe the company overview and company's industry, using the structure: "Founded in xxxx, 'company name' is a xxxx that provides .....
2. Highlight core strengths and competitive advantages key products or services,
3. Include topics about end market (geography), major customers (blue chip or not), market share for market position section,
4. Identify current industry trends, opportunities, and challenges that influence the company's strategy,
5. Outline recent strategic initiatives such as product launches, acquisitions, or new partnerships, and describe the company's response to market conditions. 
Less than 300 words.


Instruction: Summarize the analysis, less than 130 words.