Resource: Resource: Company Name: Walmart Inc.

Business summary:
 ITEM 1. BUSINESS ##TABLE_END

General 

Walmart Inc. ("Walmart," the "Company" or "we") is a people-led, technology-powered omni-channel retailer dedicated to help people around the world save money and live better &#8211; anytime and anywhere &#8211; by providing the opportunity to shop in both retail stores and through eCommerce, and to access our other service offerings. Through innovation, we strive to continuously improve a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates our eCommerce and retail stores in an omni-channel offering that saves time for our customers. Each week, we serve approximately 240 million customers who visit more than 10,500 stores and numerous eCommerce websites in 20 countries. 

Our strategy is to make every day easier for busy families, operate with discipline, sharpen our culture and become more digital, and make trust a competitive advantage. Making life easier for busy families includes our commitment to price leadership, which has been and will remain a cornerstone of our business, as well as increasing convenience to save our customers time. By leading on price, we earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices ("EDLP"). EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity. Everyday low cost ("EDLC") is our commitment to control expenses so our cost savings can be passed along to our customers. 

Our operations comprise three reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club. Our fiscal year ends on January 31 for our United States ("U.S.") and Canadian operations. We consolidate all other operations generally using a one-month lag and on a calendar year basis. Our discussion is as of and for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2023 ("fiscal 2023"), January 31, 2022 ("fiscal 2022") and January 31, 2021 ("fiscal 2021"). During fiscal 2023, we generated total revenues of $611.3 billion, which was comprised primarily of net sales of $605.9 billion. 

We maintain our principal offices in Bentonville, Arkansas. Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "WMT." 

The Development of Our Company 

The businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin variety store in Newport, Arkansas. In 1946, his brother, James L. Walton, opened a similar store in Versailles, Missouri. Until 1962, our founders' business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. In 1983, we opened our first Sam's Club, and in 1988, we opened our first supercenter. In 1998, we opened our first Walmart Neighborhood Market. In 1991, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in Mexico and, as of January 31, 2023, our Walmart International segment conducted business in 19 countries. 

In 2000, we began our first eCommerce initiative by creating both walmart.com and samsclub.com. Since then, our eCommerce presence has continued to grow. In 2007, leveraging our physical stores, walmart.com launched its Site to Store service, enabling customers to make a purchase online and pick up merchandise in stores. To date, we now have over 8,100 pickup and approximately 7,000 delivery locations globally. In recent years, we have heavily invested in omni-channel and eCommerce innovation, which has enabled us to leverage technology, talent and expertise, incubate digitally-native brands, and expand our assortment and service offerings. We have also continued to enhance our eCommerce initiatives, such as with our acquisition of a majority stake in Flipkart Private Limited ("Flipkart"), which is our ecosystem in India that includes eCommerce platforms of Flipkart and Myntra, as well as with our majority stake in PhonePe Private Limited ("PhonePe"), a digital transaction platform. 

We are enhancing our ecosystem with our omni-channel capabilities, stores, service offerings, eCommerce websites and marketplaces as well as our supply chain combined with approximately 2.1 million associates as of January 31, 2023 to better serve our customers. Together, we believe these elements produce a flywheel effect which creates relationships where customers view Walmart as their primary destination. In the U.S., our Walmart+ membership incorporates several service offerings which provide enhanced omni-channel shopping experiences and benefits for members. As we execute on our strategy globally, our flywheel is accelerating through offerings such as our Walmart Connect advertising business, Walmart Fulfillment Services, providing access to quality, affordable healthcare via Walmart Health and Flipkart Health+, and our financial services businesses. These offerings represent mutually reinforcing pieces of our flywheel centered around our customers around the world who are increasingly seeking convenience. 

Information About Our Segments 

We are engaged in global operations of retail, wholesale and other units, as well as eCommerce, located throughout the U.S., Africa, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India and Mexico. We also previously operated in Argentina prior to the sale of Walmart Argentina in fiscal 2021 and operated in the United Kingdom and Japan prior to the sale of those operations in the first quarter of fiscal 2022. Refer to Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information on these divestitures. Our operations are conducted in three reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club, which are further described below. Each segment contributes to the Company's operating results differently. However, each has generally maintained a consistent contribution rate to the Company's net sales in recent years other than minor changes to the contribution rate for the Walmart International segment due to the exit of certain markets and fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Additional information on our operating segments and geographic information is contained in Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Walmart U.S. Segment 

Walmart U.S. is our largest segment and operates in the U.S., including in all 50 states, Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico. Walmart U.S. is a mass merchandiser of consumer products, operating under the "Walmart" and "Walmart Neighborhood Market" brands, as well as walmart.com and other eCommerce brands. Walmart U.S. had net sales of $420.6 billion for fiscal 2023, representing 69% of our fiscal 2023 consolidated net sales, and had net sales of $393.2 billion and $370.0 billion for fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively. Of our three segments, Walmart U.S. has historically had the highest gross profit as a percentage of net sales ("gross profit rate"). In addition, Walmart U.S. has historically contributed the greatest amount to the Company's net sales and operating income. 

Omni-channel. Walmart U.S. provides an omni-channel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and eCommerce, through services such as pickup and delivery, in-home delivery, ship-from-store, and digital pharmacy fulfillment options. As of January 31, 2023, we had more tha n 4,600 pickup locations and more than 3,900 same-day delivery locations. Our Walmart+ membership offering provides enhanced omni-channel shopping benefits including unlimited free shipping on eligible items with no order minimum, unlimited delivery from store, fuel discounts, access to Paramount+ streaming service, and mobile scan &#38; go for a streamlined in-store shopping experience. We have several eCommerce websites, the largest of which is walmart.com. We define eCommerce sales as sales initiated by customers digitally and fulfilled by a number of methods including our dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers and leveraging our stores, as well as certain other business offerings that are part of our flywheel strategy, such as our Walmart Connect advertising business. The following table provides the approximate size of our retail stores as of January 31, 2023: 

##TABLE_START Minimum Square Feet Maximum Square Feet Average Square Feet Supercenters (general merchandise and grocery) 69,000 260,000 178,000 Discount stores (general merchandise and limited grocery) 30,000 206,000 105,000 

Neighborhood markets (1) (grocery) 

28,000 65,000 42,000 ##TABLE_END

(1) Excludes other small formats. 

Merchandise. Walmart U.S. does business primarily in three strategic merchandise units, listed below: 

&#8226; Grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including dry grocery, snacks, dairy, meat, produce, deli &#38; bakery, frozen foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, pet supplies, household chemicals, paper goods and baby products; 

&#8226; General merchandise includes: 

&#9702; Entertainment (e.g., electronics, toys, seasonal merchandise, wireless, video games, movies, music and books); 

&#9702; Hardlines (e.g., automotive, hardware and paint, sporting goods, outdoor living and stationery); 

&#9702; Apparel (e.g., apparel for men, women, girls, boys and infants, as well as shoes, jewelry and accessories); and 

&#9702; Home (e.g., housewares and small appliances, bed &#38; bath, furniture and home organization, home furnishings, home decor, fabrics and crafts). 

&#8226; Health and wellness includes pharmacy, over-the-counter drugs and other medical products, optical services and other clinical services. 

Other categories in the Walmart U.S. business include an in-house advertising offering via Walmart Connect, supply chain and fulfillment capabilities to online marketplace sellers via Walmart Fulfillment Services, and newer initiatives such as B2B last mile delivery services via Walmart GoLocal, and a suite of data products for merchants and suppliers via Walmart Luminate. Additional service offerings include fuel, financial services and related products (including through our digital channels, stores and our fintech venture, ONE), such as money orders, prepaid access, money transfers, check cashing, bill payment, and certain types of installment lending. 

Brand name merchandise represents a significant portion of the merchandise sold in Walmart U.S. We also market lines of merchandise under our private brands, including brands such as: "Allswell," "Athletic Works," "Eloquii Elements," "Equate," "Free Assembly," "Freshness Guaranteed," "George," "Great Value," "Holiday Time," "Hyper Tough," "Mainstays," "Marketside," "No Boundaries," "onn.," "Ozark Trail," "Parent's Choice," "Sam's Choice," "Scoop," "Spring Valley," "Time and Tru," "Way to Celebrate" and "Wonder Nation." The Company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include: "Avia," "Love &#38; Sports," "Better Homes &#38; Gardens," "Pioneer Woman" and "Sofia Jeans by Sofia Vergara." 

Periodically, revisions are made to the categorization of the components comprising our strategic merchandise units. When revisions are made, the previous periods' presentation is adjusted to maintain comparability. 

Operations. Walmart U.S. is available to customers through supercenters, discount stores and neighborhood markets, as well as online or through the mobile application 24 hours a day. Consistent with its strategy, Walmart U.S. continues to develop technology tools and services to better serve customers and help stores operate more efficiently, such as pickup and delivery, Walmart+, ship-from-store and other initiatives which provide convenient and seamless omni-channel shopping experiences. 

Seasonal Aspects of Operations. Walmart U.S.'s business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns. Historically, its highest sales volume has occurred in the fiscal quarter ending January 31. 

Competition. Walmart U.S. competes with brick and mortar, eCommerce, and omni-channel retailers operating discount, department, retail and wholesale grocers, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets and supercenter-type stores, social commerce platforms, as well as companies that offer services in digital advertising, fulfillment and delivery services, health and wellness, and financial services. Each of these landscapes is highly competitive and rapidly evolving, and new business models and the entry of new, well-funded competitors continue to intensify this competition. Some of our competitors have longer histories in these lines of business, more customers, and greater brand recognition. They may be able to obtain more favorable terms from suppliers and business partners and to devote greater resources to the development of these businesses. In addition, for eCommerce and other internet-based businesses, newer or smaller businesses may be better able to innovate and compete with us. 

Our ability to develop and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric omni-channel experience largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. We compete in a variety of ways, including the prices at which we sell our merchandise, merchandise and selection availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities, the shopping convenience and overall shopping experience we offer, the attractiveness and ease of use of our digital platforms, cost and speed of and options for delivery to customers of merchandise purchased through our digital platforms or through our omni-channel integration of our physical and digital operations. We employ many strategies and programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry. These strategies include the following: 

&#8226; EDLP: our pricing philosophy under which we price items at everyday low prices so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity; 

&#8226; EDLC: everyday low cost is our commitment to control expenses so our cost savings can be passed along to our customers; 

&#8226; Omni-channel offerings such as pickup and delivery and our Walmart+ membership offering, all of which enhance convenience and seek to serve customers in the ways they want to be served; and 

&#8226; Expanding our flywheel and the products and services we offer in areas such as digital advertising, fulfillment services, health and wellness, and financial services to provide our customers a broader set of offerings to meet expanding needs. 

Distribution. We continue to invest in supply chain automation and utilize a total of 163 distribution facilities which are located strategically throughout the U.S. For fiscal 2023, the majority of Walmart U.S.'s purchases of store merchandise were shipped through these facilities, while most of the remaining store merchandise we purchased was shipped directly from suppliers. General merchandise and dry grocery merchandise is transported primarily through the segment's private truck fleet; however, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable grocery merchandise. We ship merchandise purchased by customers on our eCommerce platforms by a number of methods from multiple locations including from our 34 dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers, as well as leveraging our ability to ship or deliver directly from more tha n 3,900 s tores. 

Walmart International Segment 

Walmart International is our second largest segment and operated in 19 countries outside of the U.S. as of January 31, 2023. Walmart International operates through our wholly-owned subsidiaries in Canada, Chile, China, and Africa (which includes Botswana, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa, Swaziland, and Zambia), and our majority-owned subsidiaries in India, as well as Mexico and Central America (which includes Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua). Walmart International previously operated in Argentina prior to the sale of Walmart Argentina in fiscal 2021 and operated in the United Kingdom and Japan prior to the sale of those operations in the first quarter of fiscal 2022. Refer to Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of recent divestitures. 

Walmart International includes numerous formats divided into two major categories: retail and wholesale. These categories consist of many formats, including: supercenters, supermarkets, hypermarkets, warehouse clubs (including Sam's Clubs) and cash &#38; carry, as well as eCommerce through walmart.com.mx, walmart.ca, flipkart.com, walmart.cn and other sites. Walmart International had net sales of $101.0 billion for fiscal 2023, representing 17% of our fiscal 2023 consolidated net sales, and had net sales of $101.0 billion and $121.4 billion for fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively. The gross profit rate is lower than that of Walmart U.S. primarily because of its format mix. 

Walmart International's strategy is to create strong local businesses powered by Walmart which means being locally relevant and customer-focused in each of the markets it operates. We are being deliberate about where and how we choose to operate and continue to re-shape the portfolio to best enable long-term, sustainable and profitable growth. As such, we have taken certain strategic actions to strengthen our Walmart International portfolio for the long-term, which include the following highlights over the last three years: 

&#8226; Divested of Walmart Argentina in November 2020. 

&#8226; Divested of Asda Group Limited ("Asda"), our retail operations in the U.K., in February 2021. 

&#8226; Divested of a majority stake in Seiyu, our retail operations in Japan, in March 2021. 

&#8226; Bought out the noncontrolling interest shareholders of our Massmart subsidiary in November 2022 and exited operations in certain countries in Africa in December 2022. 

&#8226; Increased our ownership in PhonePe, our digital transaction platform in India, as part of the separation from Flipkart in December 2022. 

Omni-channel. Walmart International provides an omni-channel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and eCommerce, such as through pickup and delivery services in most of our markets and our marketplaces such as Flipkart in India. Our financial services offerings continue to expand with our digital transaction platform anchored in payments at PhonePe in India. We have expanded our marketplace in Mexico and Canada, which unlocks fulfillment and advertising services, and in China, our partnerships with JD.com and JD Daojia continue to drive ecommerce growth. 

Generally, retail units' selling areas range in size from 1,400 square feet to 186,000 square feet. Our wholesale stores' selling areas generally range in size from 24,000 square feet to 158,000 square feet. As of January 31, 2023, Walmart International had over 2,900 pickup and approximately 2,500 delivery locations. 

Merchandise. The merchandising strategy for Walmart International is similar to that of our operations in the U.S. in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale. While brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of our sales, we have both leveraged U.S. private brands and developed market specific private brands to serve our customers with high quality, low priced items. Along with the private brands we market globally, such as "Equate," "George," "Great Value," "Holiday Time," "Mainstays," "Marketside" and "Parent's Choice," our international markets have developed market specific brands including "Aurrera," "Lider," and "PhonePe." In addition, we have developed and continue to grow our relationships with regional and local suppliers in each market to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise that is equal to national brands at low prices. 

Consistent with its strategy, Walmart International continues to build mutually reinforcing businesses in areas such as advertising, marketplace and fulfillment services, healthcare and financial services. Our businesses in Mexico and Canada, for example, offer prepaid cards and money transfers, and our PhonePe business in India continues to grow, providing a platform that offers mobile and bill payment, person-to-person (P2P) payment, investment and insurance solutions, financial services and advertising. In Mexico, we also offer a value-based internet and telephone service allowing customers to enjoy digital connectivity, and in India we launched Flipkart Health+ enabling us to increase access to affordable care in that country. Combined, these offerings did not represent a significant portion of annual segment revenues. 

Operations. The hours of operation for operating units in Walmart International vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation. Consistent with its strategy, Walmart International continues to develop technology tools and services to better serve customers and help its various formats operate more efficiently, as well as to provide convenient and seamless omni-channel shopping experiences. 

Seasonal Aspects of Operations. Walmart International's business is seasonal to a certain extent. Historically, its highest sales volume has occurred in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. The seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different weather patterns. 

Competition. Walmart International competes with brick and mortar, eCommerce, and omni-channel retailers who operate department, drug, discount, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets and supercenter-type stores, wholesale clubs, home-improvement stores, specialty electronics stores, cash &#38; carry operations and convenience stores, and eCommerce retailers, as well as companies that offer services in digital advertising, fulfillment services, health and wellness, and financial services. Our ability to develop and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric omni-channel experience largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. We believe price leadership is a critical part of our business model and we continue to focus on moving our markets towards an EDLP approach. Additionally, our ability to operate food departments effectively has a significant impact on our competitive position in the markets where we operate. Each of these landscapes is highly competitive and rapidly evolving, and new business models and the entry of new, well-funded competitors continue to intensify this competition. Some of our competitors have longer histories in these lines of business, more customers, and greater brand recognition. They may be able to obtain more favorable terms from suppliers and business partners and to devote greater resources to the development of these businesses. In addition, for eCommerce and other internet-based businesses, newer or smaller businesses may be better able to innovate and compete with us. 

Distribution. We utilize a total of 188 distribution facilities located in Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India, Mexico and South Africa. Through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating units of the Walmart International segment. During fiscal 2023, the majority of Walmart International's purchases passed through these distribution facilities. Suppliers ship the remainder of Walmart International's purchases directly to our stores in the various markets in which we operate. Across the segment, we have efficient networks connecting physical stores and distribution and fulfillment centers which facilitate the movement of goods to where our customers live. We ship merchandise purchased by customers on our eCommerce platforms by a number of methods from multiple locations including from our 100 dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers, more than 3,600 eCommerce sort centers and last-mile delivery facilities in India, as well as our physical retail stores. 

Sam's Club Segment 

Sam's Club operates in 44 states in the U.S. and in Puerto Rico. Sam's Club is a membership-only warehouse club that also operates samsclub.com. Sam's Club had net sales of $84.3 billion for fiscal 2023, representing 14% of our consolidated fiscal 2023 net sales, and had net sales of $73.6 billion and $63.9 billion for fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively. As a membership-only warehouse club, membership income is a significant component of the segment's operating income. Sam's Club operates with a lower gross profit rate and lower operating expenses as a percentage of net sales than our other segments. 

Membership. The following two options are available to members: 

##TABLE_START Plus Membership Club Membership Annual Membership Fee $110 $50 Number of Add-on Memberships ($45 each) Up to 16 Up to 8 ##TABLE_END

All memberships include a spouse/household card at no additional cost. Plus Members are also eligible for free shipping on the majority of merchandise, with no minimum order size, and receive discounts on prescriptions and glasses. Beginning in fiscal 2023, Sam's Club launched a single loyalty rewards currency called Sam's Cash which merges and replaces existing Cash Rewards for Plus members and Cash Back for Sam's Club Mastercard holders. Members may redeem Sam's Cash on purchases in the club and online, to pay for membership fees or for cash in clubs. Sam's Cash does not expire and is available for monthly redemption. 

Omni-channel. Sam's Club provides an omni-channel experience to members, integrating warehouse clubs and eCommerce through such services as Curbside Pickup, mobile Scan &#38; Go, ship-from-club, and delivery-from-club. Members have access to a broad assortment of merchandise and services, including those not found in our clubs, online at samsclub.com and through our mobile commerce applications. The warehouse facility sizes generally range between 32,000 and 168,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 134,000 square feet. 

Merchandise. Sam's Club offers merchandise in the following five merchandise categories: 

&#8226; Grocery and consumables includes dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled or frozen packaged foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral, snack foods, candy, other grocery items, health and beauty aids, paper goods, laundry and home care, baby care, pet supplies and other consumable items; 

&#8226; Fuel, tobacco and other categories; 

&#8226; Home and apparel includes home improvement, outdoor living, gardening, furniture, apparel, jewelry, tools and power equipment, housewares, toys, seasonal items, mattresses, and tire and battery centers; 

&#8226; Health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical and hearing services and over-the-counter drugs; and 

&#8226; Technology, office and entertainment includes consumer electronics and accessories, software, video games, office supplies, appliances, and third-party gift cards. 

Within the categories above, the Member's Mark private label brand continues to expand its assortment and deliver member value. 

Operations. Sam's Club is available to members through warehouse club locations, as well as online or through the mobile application 24 hours a day. Club locations offer Plus Members the ability to shop before regular operating hours. Consistent with its strategy, Sam's Club continues to develop technology tools to drive a great member experience. Curbside Pickup is available at all clubs to help provide fast, easy and contact-free shopping for members. Sam's Club also offers "Scan &#38; Go," a mobile checkout and payment solution, which allows members to bypass the checkout line. 

Seasonal Aspects of Operations. Sam's Club's business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns. Historically, its highest sales volume has occurred in the fiscal quarter ending January 31. 

Competition. Sam's Club competes with other membership-only warehouse clubs, the largest of which is Costco, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations as well as omni-channel and eCommerce retailers and catalog businesses. At Sam's Club, we provide value at members-only prices, a quality merchandise assortment, and bulk sizing to serve both our Plus and Club members. Our eCommerce website and mobile commerce applications have increasingly become important factors in our ability to compete. 

Distribution. We utilize 29 dedicated distribution facilities located strategically throughout the U.S., as well as some of the Walmart U.S. segment's distribution facilities which service the Sam's Club segment for certain items. During fiscal 2023, the majority of Sam's Club's non-fuel club purchases were shipped from these facilities, while the remainder of our purchases were shipped directly to Sam's Club locations by suppliers. Sam's Club ships merchandise purchased on samsclub.com and through its mobile commerce applications by a number of methods including shipments made directly from clubs, 13 dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers and other distribution centers. 

Sam's Club uses a combination of our private truck fleet, as well as common carriers, to transport perishable and non-perishable merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs. 

Intellectual Property 

We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies, and similar intellectual property as important to our success, and with respect to our associates, customers and others, we rely on trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade-secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We have registered, or applied for the registration of, a number of U.S. and international domain names, trademarks, service marks and copyrights. Additionally, we have filed U.S. and international patent applications covering certain of our proprietary technology. We have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights to third parties. 

Suppliers and Supply Chain 

As a retailer and warehouse club operator, we utilize a global supply chain that includes both U.S. and international suppliers from whom we purchase the merchandise that we sell in our stores, clubs and online. In many instances, we purchase merchandise from producers located near the stores and clubs in which such merchandise will be sold, particularly products in the "fresh" category. Consistent with applicable laws, we offer our suppliers the opportunity to efficiently sell significant quantities of their products to us. These relationships enable us to obtain pricing that reflects the volume, certainty and cost-effectiveness these arrangements provide to such suppliers, which in turn enables us to provide low prices to our customers. Our suppliers are subject to standards of conduct, including requirements that they comply with local labor laws, local worker safety laws and other applicable laws. Our ability to acquire from our suppliers the assortment and volume of products we wish to offer to our customers, to receive those products within the required time through our supply chain and to distribute those products to our stores and clubs, determines, along with other supply chain logistics matters (such as containers or port access for example), in part, our in-stock levels in our stores and clubs and the attractiveness of our merchandise assortment we offer to our customers and members. 

Government Regulation 

As a company with global operations, we are subject to the laws of the United States and multiple foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, which may differ among jurisdictions. For additional information, see the risk factors herein in " Item 1A. Risk Factors " under the sub-caption "Legal, Tax, Regulatory, Compliance, Reputational and Other Risks." 

Environmental, Social and Governance ("ESG") Priorities 

Our ESG strategy is centered on the concept of creating shared value: we believe we maximize long-term value and create competitive advantage for the Company by serving our stakeholders, including our customers, associates, shareholders, suppliers, business partners, and communities. We believe that addressing such societal needs builds the value of our business, including by enhancing customer and associate trust, creating new revenue streams, managing cost and risk, building capabilities for future advantage, and strengthening the underlying systems on which Walmart and our stakeholders rely. 

We prioritize the ESG issues that offer the greatest potential for Walmart to create shared value: issues that rank high in relevance to our business and stakeholders and which Walmart is positioned to make a positive impact. Our current ESG priorities are categorized into four broad themes: opportunity, sustainability, community, and ethics and integrity. 

&#8226; Opportunity . Retail can be a powerful engine for inclusive economic opportunity. We aim to advance diversity, equity, and inclusion, and create opportunity for Walmart associates (as further described in the Human Capital Management section below), our suppliers and workers in supply chains, and the communities in which we operate. Doing so helps us fulfill our customer mission, strengthens our business and helps people build a better life for themselves and their families. 

&#8226; Sustainability . Walmart's sustainability efforts focus on our ability to create and preserve long-term value for both people and planet. With respect to people, our sustainability efforts include sourcing responsibly, helping prevent forced labor, empowering women, creating inclusive economic opportunity and selling safer, healthier products. With respect to the planet, our efforts aim to enhance the sustainability of product supply chains by reducing emissions, protecting and restoring nature, and reducing waste. To help address the effects of climate change, Walmart has set science-based targets for emissions reduction, including our goal to achieve zero emissions in our operations by 2040&#8212;without offsets&#8212;and to reduce or avoid one billion metric tons of emissions in our value chain by 2030 under our Project Gigaton&#8482; initiative. 

&#8226; Community . Walmart aims to serve and strengthen communities by operating our business in a way that meets the needs of our customer and community stakeholder groups, including by providing safer, healthier and more affordable food and other products, disaster support, associate volunteerism, local grant programs and community cohesion initiatives. 

&#8226; Ethics and Integrity . At every level of our Company, we work to create a culture that inspires trust among our associates, with our customers, and in the communities we serve . 

We periodically publish information on our ESG priorities, strategies, and progress on our corporate website and may update those disclosures from time to time. Nothing on our website, including our ESG reporting, documents or sections thereof, shall be deemed incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated by reference into any of our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

Human Capital Management 

At Walmart, we're committed to help people save money and live better around the world. This mission is delivered by our associates who make the difference for our millions of customers and members every day. As of the end of fiscal 2023, we 

employed approximately 2.1 million associates worldwide, with approximately 1.6 million associates in the U.S. and approximately 0.5 million associates internationally. In the U.S., approximately 93% of our associates are hourly and approximately 70% of our associates are full-time. 

We know the success and progress we've seen this year and throughout our Company's history is because of our associates who work every day to fulfill our mission. That's why we're focused on providing opportunities for associates to grow and learn. For some, we are a foundational entry point to develop critical skills that are relevant for a variety of careers, and for others a place where associates can grow their careers across our global omni-channel business. No matter the role or location, we're focused on developing, rewarding, and retaining associates in an ever-changing environment. As customer expectations and technology change the nature of work, we know it's our people &#8211; our humanity &#8211; that will differentiate us from the competition, so this must be a top priority. 

Our workforce strategy includes the following strategic priorities: belonging, well-being, growth and digital. 

Belonging - Build a Walmart for everyone: a diverse, equitable and inclusive company, where associates' ideas and opinions matter . We are focused on having an inclusive culture where everyone feels they belong. We publish our diversity representation twice yearly, and hold ourselves accountable to providing recurring culture, diversity, equity, and inclusion updates to senior leadership, including our President and CEO, and members of the Board of Directors. Of the approximately 2.1 million associates employed worldwide, 52% identify as women. In the U.S., 50% of the approximately 1.6 million associates identify as people of color. 

We review our processes regarding our commitment to fair-pay practices. We are committed to creating a performance culture where associates are rewarded based on meaningful factors such as qualifications, experience, performance, and the work they do. 

To build a company where associates feel engaged, valued and heard, we gather and respond to associates' feedback in a variety of ways, including but not limited to our annual associate engagement survey, our Open Door process, and one-on-one interactions. Management reviews the results of feedback obtained from our formal associate engagement survey. 

Well-being - Focus on the physical, emotional, and financial well-being of our associates. We invest in our associates by offering competitive wages, as well as a broad range of benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements. In the U.S., we offer affordable healthcare coverage to our full-time and eligible part-time associates as well as company paid benefits such as 401(k) match, family building support, maternity leave, a paid parental leave program to all full-time associates, paid time off, Associate Stock Purchase Plan match, life insurance, behavioral and mental health services, and a store discount card or Sam's Club membership. Additional information about how we invest in our associates' well-being, including wage structure and pay, can be found in our Human Capital brief in our most recent ESG reporting, which is available on our corporate website. Nothing on our website, including our ESG reporting documents, or sections thereof, shall be deemed incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated by reference into any of our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Certain information relating to retirement-related benefits we provide to our associates is included in Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Growth - Provide ongoing growth, development and learning opportunities for associates and continue to attract talent with new skills. We are invested in the growth of our associates in support of our business and their success by offering good jobs that lead to great careers and better lives. We launched the global Walmart Academy to help associates build and grow their careers, creating one of the largest learning ecosystems in the world. The global Walmart Academy offers training for on-the-job retail skills, leadership courses, and well-being training, serving associates through combination of digital and in-person offerings. The global focus builds on moving much more to a learning in the flow of work approach. 

We also provide access to educational opportunities for our part-time and full-time frontline eligible associates in the U.S. through our Live Better U program, which provides access to earn a high school diploma or a college degree. Walmart pays 100% of associates' college tuition, books and fees. Our Live Better U program aligns education offerings with Walmart's own areas of growth, providing opportunities for associates to become great at the job they have today and prepare for the job of tomorrow. Approximately 75% of our U.S. salaried store, club and supply chain management started their careers in hourly positions. Our focus on providing a path of opportunity for our associates through robust training, competitive wages and benefits, and career advancement creates a strong associate value proposition and strengthens our workforce. 

Digital - Accelerate digital transformation and ways of working to improve the associate experience and drive business results . To deliver a seamless customer and associate experience, we continue to invest in digital tools like Me@Walmart, MyClub and Me@Campus to improve associate productivity, engagement, and performance. The MyFeedback app was developed to capture real-time associate feedback. Walmart supports associates who are on the U.S. Medical Plan with free virtual visits which include visits for medical doctor urgent care, along with mental health care with psychiatrist and psychologists. 

Information About Our Executive Officers 

The following chart names the executive officers of the Company as of the date of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC, each of whom is elected by and serves at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. The business experience shown for each officer has been his or her principal occupation for at least the past five years, unless otherwise noted. 

##TABLE_START Name Business Experience Current Position Held Since Age Daniel J. Bartlett Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs, effective June 2013. From November 2007 to June 2013, he served as the Chief Executive Officer and President of U.S. Operations at Hill &#38; Knowlton, Inc., a public relations company. 2013 51 Rachel Brand Executive Vice President, Global Governance, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary, effective April 2018. From May 2017 to February 2018, she served as Associate Attorney General in the United States Department of Justice. 2018 49 David M. Chojnowski Senior Vice President and Controller effective January 2017. From October 2014 to January 2017, he served as Vice President and Controller, Walmart U.S. 2017 53 John Furner Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart U.S. effective November 2019. From February 2017 until November 2019, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam's Club. 2019 48 Suresh Kumar Executive Vice President, Global Chief Technology Officer and Chief Development Officer effective July 2019. From February 2018 until June 2019, Mr. Kumar was Vice President and General Manager at Google LLC. 2019 58 Judith McKenna Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International, effective February 2018. From February 2015 to January 2018, she served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Walmart U.S. 2018 56 Kathryn McLay Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam's Club effective November 15, 2019. From February 2019 to November 2019, she served as Executive Vice President, Walmart U.S. Neighborhood Markets. From December 2015 until February 2019, she served as Senior Vice President, U.S. Supply Chain. 

2019 49 C. Douglas McMillon President and Chief Executive Officer, effective February 2014. From February 2009 to January 2014, he served as Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International. 2014 56 Donna Morris Executive Vice President, Global People, and Chief People Officer, effective February 2020. From April 2002 to January 2020, she worked at Adobe Inc. in various roles, including most recently, Chief Human Resources Officer and Executive Vice President, Employee Experience. 2020 55 John David Rainey Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective June 2022. From September 2016 to June 2022, he served as Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Customer Operations for PayPal Holdings, Inc. 2022 52 ##TABLE_END

Our Website and Availability of SEC Reports and Other Information 

Our corporate website is located at www.stock.walmart.com. We file with or furnish to the SEC Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, amendments to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents. The reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the SEC are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is www.sec.gov. Our SEC filings, our Reporting Protocols for Senior Financial Officers and our Code of Conduct can be found on our website at www.stock.walmart.com. These documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling our Investor Relations Department, which is located at our principal offices. 

A description of any substantive amendment or waiver of Walmart's Reporting Protocols for Senior Financial Officers or our Code of Conduct for our chief executive officer, our chief financial officer and our controller, who is our principal accounting officer, will be disclosed on our website at www.stock.walmart.com under the Corporate Governance section. Any such description will be located on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver. 

##TABLE_START 

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations:
 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ##TABLE_END

Overview 

This discussion, which presents our results for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2023 ("fiscal 2023"), January 31, 2022 ("fiscal 2022") and January 31, 2021 ("fiscal 2021"), should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes. We intend for this discussion to provide the reader with information that will assist in understanding our financial statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from period to period and the primary factors that accounted for those changes. We also discuss certain performance metrics that management uses to assess the Company's performance. Additionally, the discussion provides information about the financial results of each of the three segments to provide a better understanding of how each of those segments and its results of operations affect the financial position and results of operations of the Company as a whole. 

Throughout this Item 7, we discuss segment operating income, comparable store and club sales and other measures. Management measures the results of the Company's segments using each segment's operating income, including certain corporate overhead allocations, as well as other measures. From time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment's operating income and other measures as determined by the information regularly reviewed by our chief operating decision maker. 

Management also measures the results of comparable store and club sales, or comparable sales, a metric that indicates the performance of our existing stores and clubs by measuring the change in sales for such stores and clubs, for a particular period from the corresponding period in the previous year. Walmart's definition of comparable sales includes sales from stores and clubs open for the previous 12 months, including remodels, relocations, expansions and conversions, as well as eCommerce sales. We measure the eCommerce sales impact by including all sales initiated digitally, including omni-channel transactions which are fulfilled through our stores and clubs as well as certain other business offerings that are part of our flywheel strategy, such as our Walmart Connect advertising business. Sales at a store that has changed in format are excluded from comparable sales when the conversion of that store is accompanied by a relocation or expansion that results in a change in the store's retail square feet of more than five percent. Sales related to divested businesses are excluded from comparable sales, and sales related to acquisitions are excluded until such acquisitions have been owned for 12 months. Comparable sales are also referred to as "same-store" sales by others within the retail industry. The method of calculating comparable sales varies across the retail industry. As a result, our calculation of comparable sales is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. 

In discussing our operating results, the term currency exchange rates refers to the currency exchange rates we use to convert the operating results for countries where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar into U.S. dollars. We calculate the effect of changes in currency exchange rates as the difference between current period activity translated using the current period's currency exchange rates and the comparable prior year period's currency exchange rates. Additionally, no currency exchange rate fluctuations are calculated for non-USD acquisitions until owned for 12 months. Throughout our discussion, we refer to the results of this calculation as the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations. Volatility in currency exchange rates may impact the results, including net sales and operating income, of the Company and the Walmart International segment in the future. 

We have taken certain strategic actions to strengthen our portfolio, primarily in the Walmart International segment, including the following highlights over the last three years: 

&#8226; In November 2020, we completed the sale of Walmart Argentina and recorded a pre-tax non-cash loss in fiscal 2021 of $1.0 billion, primarily due to cumulative foreign currency translation losses. Refer to Note 12 . 

&#8226; In February 2021, we completed the sale of Asda for net consideration of $9.6 billion, for which we recognized an estimated pre-tax loss in fiscal 2021 of $5.5 billion, and an incremental loss of $0.2 billion in fiscal 2022 upon closing of the transaction. Refer to Note 11 and Note 12 . 

&#8226; In March 2021, we completed the sale of Seiyu for net consideration of $1.2 billion, for which we recognized an estimated pre-tax loss in fiscal 2021 of $1.9 billion, and an incremental loss of $0.2 billion in fiscal 2022 upon closing of the transaction. Refer to Note 12 . 

&#8226; In November 2022, we completed the buyout of the noncontrolling interest shareholders of our Massmart subsidiary (Refer to Note 3 ) and in December 2022, we exited operations in certain countries in Africa. 

&#8226; In December 2022, we increased our ownership in PhonePe as part of the separation from our majority-owned Flipkart subsidiary. Refer to Note 3 . 

We operate in a highly competitive omni-channel retail industry in all of the markets we serve. We face strong sales competition from other discount, department, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, warehouse clubs and supermarkets, as well as eCommerce, health and wellness, financial services, advertising, and data service businesses. Many of these competitors are national, regional or international chains or have a national or international omni-channel or eCommerce 

presence. We compete with a number of companies for attracting and retaining quality associates. We, along with other retail companies, are influenced by a number of factors including, but not limited to: catastrophic events, weather and other risks related to climate change, global health epidemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic, competitive pressures, consumer disposable income, consumer debt levels and buying patterns, consumer credit availability, disruptions in supply chain, inventory management, cost and availability of goods, currency exchange rate fluctuations, customer preferences, inflation, deflation, fuel and energy prices, general economic conditions, insurance costs, interest rates, labor availability and costs, tax rates, the imposition of tariffs, cybersecurity attacks and unemployment. Further information on the factors that can affect our operating results and on certain risks to our Company and an investment in its securities can be found herein under " Item 1A. Risk Factors ." 

We are committed to helping customers save money and live better through everyday low prices, supported by everyday low 

costs. However, like other retail companies, we have seen supply chain disruptions contributing to higher than 

normal inventory levels throughout the year. In addition, our merchandise costs for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2023 have been impacted by high inflation, greater than what we have experienced in recent years. The impact to our net sales and gross profit margin is influenced in part by our pricing and merchandising strategies in response to cost increases. Those pricing strategies include, but are not limited to: absorbing cost increases instead of passing those cost increases on to our customers and members; reducing prices in certain merchandise categories; focusing on opening price points for certain food categories; and when necessary, passing cost increases on to our customers and members. Merchandising strategies include, but are not limited to: working with our suppliers to reduce product costs and share in absorbing cost increases; focusing on private label brands and smaller pack sizes; earlier-than-usual purchasing and in greater volumes or moderating purchasing in certain categories; and securing ocean carrier and container capacity. These strategies have and may continue to impact gross profit as a percentage of net sales. 

We expect continued uncertainty in our business and the global economy due to pressure from inflation; swings in macroeconomic conditions and their effect on consumer confidence; volatility in employment trends; supply chain pressures; and ongoing uncertainties related to global health epidemics or pandemics, any of which may impact our results. For a detailed discussion on results of operations by reportable segment, refer to " Results of Operations " below. 

Company Performance Metrics 

We are committed to helping customers save money and live better through everyday low prices, supported by everyday low costs. At times, we adjust our business strategies to maintain and strengthen our competitive positions in the countries in which we operate. We define our financial framework as: 

&#8226; strong, efficient growth; 

&#8226; consistent operating discipline; and 

&#8226; strategic capital allocation. 

As we execute on this financial framework, we believe our returns on capital will improve over time. 

Strong, Efficient Growth 

Our objective of prioritizing strong, efficient growth means we will focus on the most productive growth opportunities, increasing comparable store and club sales through increasing membership at Sam's Club and through Walmart+, accelerating eCommerce sales growth and expanding omni-channel initiatives that complement our flywheel strategy. At times, we make strategic investments which are focused on the long-term growth of the Company. 

Comparable sales is a metric that indicates the performance of our existing stores and clubs by measuring the change in sales for such stores and clubs, including eCommerce sales, for a particular period over the corresponding period in the previous year. The retail industry generally reports comparable sales using the retail calendar (also known as the 4-5-4 calendar). To be consistent with the retail industry, we provide comparable sales using the retail calendar in our quarterly earnings releases. However, when we discuss our comparable sales below, we are referring to our calendar comparable sales calculated using our fiscal calendar, which may result in differences when compared to comparable sales using the retail calendar. 

Calendar comparable sales, including the impact of fuel, for fiscal 2023 and 2022, were as follows: 

##TABLE_START &#160; Fiscal Years Ended January 31, &#160; 2023 2022 2023 2022 &#160; With Fuel Fuel Impact Walmart U.S. 7.0% 6.4% 0.4% 0.3% Sam's Club 14.6% 15.0% 4.2% 5.5% Total U.S. 8.2% 7.7% 1.0% 1.2% ##TABLE_END

Comparable sales in the U.S., including fuel, increased 8.2% and 7.7% in fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. Walmart U.S. comparable sales increased 7.0% and 6.4% in fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively. For 

fiscal 2023, comparable sales growth was driven by growth in average ticket, including strong food sales and higher inflation impacts in certain merchandise categories, as well as growth in transactions. For fiscal 2022, comparable sales growth was driven driven by growth in average ticket and transactions, which included strong consumer spending from government stimulus and some higher inflation impacts in certain merchandise categories compared to recent years. Walmart U.S. eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 0.7% to comparable sales for both fiscal 2023 and 2022 as we continue to focus on a seamless omni-channel experience for our customers. 

Comparable sales at Sam's Club increased 14.6% and 15.0% in fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively. For fiscal 2023, Sam's Club comparable sales benefited from growth in transactions and average ticket and included higher inflation impacts in certain merchandise categories. Sam's Club comparable sales for fiscal 2022 benefited from growth in transactions and average ticket and was aided by consumer spending due to government stimulus, and also included some higher inflation impacts in certain merchandise categories compared to recent years. The growth in comparable sales was partially offset by our decision to remove tobacco from certain club locations. Sam's Club eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 0.8% and 1.3% to comparable sales for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively. 

Consistent Operating Discipline 

We operate with discipline by managing expenses, optimizing the efficiency of how we work and creating an environment in which we have sustainable lowest cost to serve. We invest in technology and process improvements to increase productivity, manage inventory and reduce costs. We measure operating discipline through expense leverage, which we define as net sales growing at a faster rate than operating, selling, general and administrative ("operating") expenses. 

##TABLE_START Fiscal Years Ended January 31, (Amounts in millions, except unit counts) 2023 2022 Net sales $ 605,881 $ 567,762 Percentage change from comparable period 6.7 % 2.3 % Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses $ 127,140 $ 117,812 Percentage change from comparable period 7.9 % 1.3 % Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales 21.0 % 20.8 % ##TABLE_END

For fiscal 2023, operating expenses as a percentage of net sales increased 23 basis points when compared to the previous fiscal year. Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales were impacted by charges of $3.3 billion related to opioid-related legal settlements and charges of $0.8 billion related to the reorganization and restructuring of certain businesses in the Walmart International segment. These charges were partially offset by growth in net sales and lower incremental COVID-19 costs. 

For fiscal 2022, operating expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased 19 basis points when compared to the previous fiscal year. Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales benefited from growth in comparable sales and lower incremental COVID-19 related costs of $2.5 billion as compared to the previous year, partially offset by increased wage investments primarily in the Walmart U.S. segment. 

Strategic Capital Allocation 

Our strategy includes improving our customer-facing initiatives in stores and clubs and creating a seamless omni-channel experience for our customers. As such, we continue to allocate more capital to supply chain, omni-channel initiatives, technology and store remodels and less to new store and club openings. The following table provides additional detail: 

##TABLE_START (Amounts in millions) Fiscal Years Ended January 31, Allocation of Capital Expenditures 2023 2022 Supply chain, customer-facing initiatives and technology $ 9,209 $ 7,197 Store and club remodels 4,990 3,278 New stores and clubs, including expansions and relocations 33 134 Total U.S. $ 14,232 $ 10,609 Walmart International 2,625 2,497 Total capital expenditures $ 16,857 $ 13,106 ##TABLE_END

Returns 

As we execute our financial framework, we believe our return on capital will improve over time. We measure return on capital with our return on assets, return on investment and free cash flow metrics. We also provide returns in the form of share repurchases and dividends, which are discussed in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section. 

Return on Assets and Return on Investment 

We include Return on Assets ("ROA"), the most directly comparable measure based on our financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. ("GAAP"), and Return on Investment ("ROI") as metrics 

to assess returns on assets. While ROI is considered a non-GAAP financial measure, management believes ROI is a meaningful metric to share with investors because it helps investors assess how effectively Walmart is deploying its assets. Trends in ROI can fluctuate over time as management balances long-term strategic initiatives with possible short-term impacts. ROA was 4.6% and 5.6% for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively. The decrease in ROA was primarily due to the decrease in net income, which was driven by lower operating income, partially offset by lapping debt extinguishment charges . ROI was 12.7% and 14.9% for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, which was primarily due to a decrease in operating income which included charges associated with opioid-related legal settlements as well as reorganization and restructuring expenses, all recorded in fiscal 2023. 

We define ROI as adjusted operating income (operating income plus interest income, depreciation and amortization, and rent expense) for the trailing twelve months divided by average invested capital during that period. We consider average invested capital to be the average of our beginning and ending total assets, plus average accumulated depreciation and average amortization, less average accounts payable and average accrued liabilities for that period. 

Our calculation of ROI is considered a non-GAAP financial measure because we calculate ROI using financial measures that exclude and include amounts that are included and excluded in the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. For example, we exclude the impact of depreciation and amortization from our reported operating income in calculating the numerator of our calculation of ROI. As mentioned above, we consider ROA to be the financial measure computed in accordance with GAAP most directly comparable to our calculation of ROI. ROI differs from ROA (which is consolidated net income for the period divided by average total assets for the period) because ROI: adjusts operating income to exclude certain expense items and adds interest income; and adjusts total assets for the impact of accumulated depreciation and amortization, accounts payable and accrued liabilities to arrive at total invested capital. Because of the adjustments mentioned above, we believe ROI more accurately measures how we are deploying our key assets and is more meaningful to investors than ROA. Although ROI is a standard financial measure, numerous methods exist for calculating a company's ROI. As a result, the method used by management to calculate our ROI may differ from the methods used by other companies to calculate their ROI. 

The calculation of ROA and ROI, along with a reconciliation of ROI to the calculation of ROA, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, is as follows: ##TABLE_START &#160; Fiscal Years Ended January 31, (Amounts in millions) 2023 2022 CALCULATION OF RETURN ON ASSETS Numerator Consolidated net income $ 11,292 $ 13,940 Denominator Average total assets (1) 

$ 244,029 $ 248,678 Return on assets (ROA) 4.6 % 5.6 % CALCULATION OF RETURN ON INVESTMENT Numerator Operating income $ 20,428 $ 25,942 + Interest income 254 158 + Depreciation and amortization 10,945 10,658 + Rent 2,306 2,274 ROI operating income $ 33,933 $ 39,032 Denominator Average total assets (1) 

$ 244,029 $ 248,678 &#160;+ Average accumulated depreciation and amortization (1) 

106,249 98,199 - Average accounts payable (1) 

54,502 52,201 - Average accrued liabilities (1) 

28,593 32,013 Average invested capital $ 267,183 $ 262,663 Return on investment (ROI) 12.7 % 14.9 % ##TABLE_END

(1) The average is based on the addition of the account balance at the end of the current period to the account balance at the end of the prior period and dividing by 2. 

##TABLE_START &#160; As of January 31, &#160; 2023 2022 2021 Certain Balance Sheet Data Total assets $ 243,197 $ 244,860 $ 252,496 Accumulated depreciation and amortization 110,286 102,211 94,187 Accounts payable 53,742 55,261 49,141 Accrued liabilities 31,126 26,060 37,966 ##TABLE_END

Free Cash Flow 

Free cash flow is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes, however, that free cash flow, which measures our ability to generate additional cash from our business operations, is an important financial measure for use in evaluating the Company's financial performance. Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, consolidated net income as a measure of our performance and net cash provided by operating activities as a measure of our liquidity. See " Liquidity and Capital Resources " for discussions of GAAP metrics including net cash provided by operating activities, net cash used in investing activities and net cash used in financing activities. 

We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities in a period minus payments for property and equipment made in that period. We had net cash provided by operating activities of $28.8 billion, $24.2 billion and $36.1 billion for fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. We generated free cash flow of $12.0 billion, $11.1 billion and $25.8 billion for fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2023 increased when compared to fiscal 2022. The increase is primarily due to moderated levels of inventory purchases, partially offset by a decline in operating income and the timing of certain payments. Free cash flow for fiscal 2023 increased when compared to fiscal 2022 due to the increase in operating cash flows described above, partially offset by an increase of $3.8 billion in capital expenditures to support our investment strategy. Net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2022 decreased when compared to fiscal 2021 primarily due to an increase in inventory costs and purchases to support strong sales and lapping the impact of accelerated inventory sell-through in fiscal 2021, as well as timing and payment of wages. Free cash flow for fiscal 2022 decreased when compared to fiscal 2021 due to the same reasons as the decrease in net cash provided by operating activities, as well as $2.8 billion in increased capital expenditures. 

Walmart's definition of free cash flow is limited in that it does not represent residual cash flows available for discretionary expenditures due to the fact that the measure does not deduct the payments required for debt service and other contractual obligations or payments made for business acquisitions. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a measure that provides supplemental information to our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows . 

Although other companies report their free cash flow, numerous methods may exist for calculating a company's free cash flow. As a result, the method used by management to calculate our free cash flow may differ from the methods used by other companies to calculate their free cash flow. 

The following table sets forth a reconciliation of free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, to net cash provided by operating activities, which we believe to be the GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to free cash flow, as well as information regarding net cash used in investing activities and net cash used in financing activities. 

##TABLE_START &#160; Fiscal Years Ended January 31, (Amounts in millions) 2023 2022 2021 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 28,841 $ 24,181 $ 36,074 Payments for property and equipment (16,857) (13,106) (10,264) Free cash flow $ 11,984 $ 11,075 $ 25,810 

Net cash used in investing activities (1) 

$ (17,722) $ (6,015) $ (10,071) Net cash used in financing activities (17,039) (22,828) (16,117) ##TABLE_END

(1) "Net cash used in investing activities" includes payments for property and equipment, which is also included in our computation of free cash flow. 

Results of Operations 

Consolidated Results of Operations 

##TABLE_START Fiscal Years Ended January 31, (Amounts in millions, except unit counts) 2023 2022 2021 Total revenues $ 611,289 $ 572,754 $ 559,151 Percentage change from comparable period 6.7 % 2.4 % 6.7 % Net sales $ 605,881 $ 567,762 $ 555,233 Percentage change from comparable period 6.7 % 2.3 % 6.8 % Total U.S. calendar comparable sales increase 8.2 % 7.7 % 8.7 % Gross profit rate 23.5 % 24.4 % 24.3 % Operating income $ 20,428 $ 25,942 $ 22,548 Operating income as a percentage of net sales 3.4 % 4.6 % 4.1 % Loss on extinguishment of debt $ &#8212; $ 2,410 $ &#8212; Other (gains) and losses $ 1,538 $ 3,000 $ (210) Consolidated net income $ 11,292 $ 13,940 $ 13,706 

Unit counts at period end (1) 

10,623 10,593 11,443 

Retail square feet at period end (1) 

1,056 1,060 1,121 ##TABLE_END

(1) Unit counts and associated retail square feet are presented for stores and clubs generally open as of period end, and reflects the removal of stores in the U.K. and Japan subsequent to closing the divestitures in fiscal 2022. Permanently closed locations are not included in these metrics. 

Our total revenues, which includes net sales and membership and other income, increased $38.5 billion or 6.7% and $13.6 billion or 2.4% for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. These increases in revenues were primarily due to increases in net sales, which increased $38.1 billion or 6.7% and $12.5 billion or 2.3% for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. For fiscal 2023, the increase was primarily due to strong positive comparable sales for the Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club segments which was driven by growth in average ticket, including strong food sales and higher inflation impacts in certain merchandise categories, as well as growth in transactions, along with positive comparable sales in all of our international markets. Additionally, net sales were negatively impacted by a decrease of $5.0 billion related to the divestiture of our operations in the U.K. and Japan, which closed in the first quarter of fiscal 2022 and $3.7 billion of fluctuations in currency exchange rates during fiscal 2023. For fiscal 2022, the increase was primarily due to strong positive comparable sales for the Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club which benefited from strong U.S. consumer spending and some inflation, along with positive comparable sales in most of our remaining international markets. The increase was partially offset by a $32.6 billion net sales decrease primarily related to the divestiture of our operations in the U.K. and Japan, which closed in the first quarter of fiscal 2022. Net sales also benefited from a $4.5 billion positive impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates during fiscal 2022. 

Our gross profit rate decreased 98 and increased 14 basis points for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. For fiscal 2023, the decrease was primarily due to markdowns and merchandise mix in the U.S., higher supply chain costs and inflation related LIFO charges in the Sam's Club segment. For fiscal 2022, the increase was primarily due to price management in the Walmart U.S. segment driven by cost inflation as well as merchandise mix, partially offset by increased supply chain costs. 

For fiscal 2023, operating expenses as a percentage of net sales increased 23 basis points when compared to the previous fiscal year. Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales were impacted by charges of $3.3 billion related to opioid-related legal settlements and charges of $0.8 billion related to the reorganization and restructuring of certain businesses in the Walmart International segment. These charges were partially offset by growth in net sales and lower incremental COVID-19 costs. For fiscal 2022, operating expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased 19 basis points when compared to the previous fiscal year. Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales benefited from growth in comparable sales and lower incremental COVID-19 related costs of $2.5 billion as compared to the previous year, partially offset by increased wage investments primarily in the Walmart U.S. segment. 

Loss on extinguishment of debt was $2.4 billion in fiscal 2022 due to the early retirement of certain higher rate long-term debt to reduce interest expense in future periods. 

Other gains and losses consist of certain non-operating items, such as the change in the fair value of our investments and gains or losses on business dispositions, which by their nature can fluctuate from period to period. Other gains and losses consisted of a net loss of $1.5 billion and $3.0 billion for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively. The net loss in fiscal 2023 primarily consists of: (a) net losses associated with the fair value changes of our equity and other investments; (b) a gain of $0.4 billion recognized on the sale of our remaining equity method investment in Brazil; and (c) a $0.2 billion dividend from one of our investments. The net loss in fiscal 2022 primarily consists of net losses associated with the fair value changes of our equity investments, as well as $0.4 billion in incremental losses associated with the divestitures of our operations in the U.K. and Japan, which closed in the first quarter of fiscal 2022. 

Our effective income tax rate was 33.6% for fiscal 2023, 25.4% for fiscal 2022, and 33.3% for fiscal 2021, respectively. The increase in our effective tax rate for fiscal 2023 as compared to fiscal 2022 is primarily due to the tax impact of the business reorganization resulting in the full separation of PhonePe from Flipkart. The decrease in our effective tax rate for fiscal 2022 as compared to fiscal 2021 is primarily due to the $8.3 billion loss related to the divestiture of certain international operations classified as held for sale or sold in fiscal 2021, which provided minimal realizable tax benefit. Our effective income tax rate may also fluctuate as a result of various factors, including changes in our assessment of unrecognized tax benefits, valuation allowances, changes in tax law, outcomes of administrative audits, the impact of discrete items and the mix and size of earnings among our U.S. operations and international operations, which are subject to statutory rates that are generally higher than the U.S. statutory rate. The reconciliation from the U.S. statutory rate to the effective income tax rates for fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021 is presented in Note 9 . 

As a result of the factors discussed above, we reported $11.3 billion and $13.9 billion of consolidated net income for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, which represents a decrease of $2.6 billion and an increase of $0.2 billion for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. Diluted net income per common share attributable to Walmart ("EPS") was $4.27, $4.87 and $4.75 for fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. 

Walmart U.S. Segment 

##TABLE_START &#160; Fiscal Years Ended January 31, (Amounts in millions, except unit counts) 2023 2022 2021 Net sales $ 420,553 $ 393,247 $ 369,963 Percentage change from comparable period 6.9 % 6.3 % 8.5 % Calendar comparable sales increase 7.0 % 6.4 % 8.7 % Operating income $ 20,620 $ 21,587 $ 19,116 Operating income as a percentage of net sales 4.9 % 5.5 % 5.2 % Unit counts at period end 4,717 4,742 4,743 Retail square feet at period end 702 703 703 ##TABLE_END

Net sales for the Walmart U.S. segment increased $27.3 billion or 6.9% and $23.3 billion or 6.3% for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. The increases in net sales were primarily due to increases in comparable sales of 7.0% and 6.4% for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively. Comparable sales in fiscal 2023 were driven by growth in average ticket, including strong food sales and higher inflation impacts in certain merchandise categories, as well as growth in transactions. Comparable sales in fiscal 2022 were driven by growth in average ticket and transactions, which included strong consumer spending from government stimulus and some higher inflation impacts in certain merchandise categories compared to recent years. Walmart U.S. eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 0.7% to comparable sales for both fiscal 2023 and 2022, as we continue to focus on a seamless omni-channel experience for our customers. 

Gross profit rate decreased 85 basis points for fiscal 2023 and increased 51 basis points for fiscal 2022, when compared to the respective previous fiscal year. The decrease in fiscal 2023 gross profit rate was primarily due to net markdowns and product mix shifts into lower margin categories and increased supply chain costs, partially offset by price management impacts driven by cost inflation. Gross profit rate for fiscal 2022 benefited from price management driven by cost inflation as well as merchandise mix, which includes lapping the temporary closures of our Auto Care and Vision Centers and growth in our advertising business, partially offset by increased supply chain costs. 

Operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales decreased 25 basis points for fiscal 2023 when compared to the previous fiscal year primarily driven by strong sales growth and lower incremental COVID-19 related costs, partially offset by increased wage costs. For fiscal 2022, operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales increased 31 basis points primarily due to investments in wages, partially offset by lower incremental COVID-19 related costs of $1.9 billion. 

As a result of the factors discussed above, segment operating income decreased $1.0 billion and increased $2.5 billion for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. 

Walmart International Segment ##TABLE_START &#160; Fiscal Years Ended January 31, (Amounts in millions, except unit counts) 2023 2022 2021 Net sales $ 100,983 $ 100,959 $ 121,360 Percentage change from comparable period &#8212; % (16.8) % 1.0 % Operating income $ 2,965 $ 3,758 $ 3,660 Operating income as a percentage of net sales 2.9 % 3.7 % 3.0 % Unit counts at period end 5,306 5,251 6,101 Retail square feet at period end 273 277 337 ##TABLE_END

Net sales for the Walmart International segment were flat and decreased $20.4 billion or 16.8% for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. For fiscal 2023, net sales benefited from positive comparable sales in all of our international markets, offset by the impacts of a decrease of $5.0 billion related to the divestiture of our operations in the U.K. and Japan, which closed in the first quarter of fiscal 2022, as well as $3.7 billion of fluctuations in currency exchange rates during fiscal 2023. For fiscal 2022, the reduction in net sales was driven by a $32.6 billion decrease primarily related to the divestitures of our operations in the U.K. and Japan, which closed during the first quarter of fiscal 2022. This decrease was partially offset by positive comparable sales in most of our remaining markets, as well as positive fluctuations in currency exchange rates of $4.5 billion. 

Gross profit rate decreased 50 basis points and 55 basis points for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. For fiscal 2023, the decrease was primarily driven by continued growth in lower margin formats and channels in China and category mix shifts into lower margin categories. For fiscal 2022, the decrease was primarily driven by shifts into lower margin formats and the impact related to our divested markets. 

Operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales increased 41 basis points and decreased 71 basis points for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales for fiscal 2023 was primarily due to business reorganization and restructuring charges incurred related to Flipkart and Massmart during the fourth quarter. For fiscal 2022, the decrease was primarily due to impacts from the divested markets and $0.4 billion of lower incremental COVID-19 related costs. Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales benefited from depreciation and amortization expense not having been recorded for our operations in the U.K. and Japan subsequent to their held for sale classification at the end of fiscal 2021 and prior to closing during the first quarter of fiscal 2022. 

As a result of the factors discussed above, segment operating income decreased $0.8 billion and increased $0.1 billion for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. 

Sam's Club Segment 

##TABLE_START &#160; Fiscal Years Ended January 31, (Amounts in millions, except unit counts) 2023 2022 2021 Including Fuel Net sales $ 84,345 $ 73,556 $ 63,910 Percentage change from comparable period 14.7 % 15.1 % 8.7 % Calendar comparable sales increase 14.6 % 15.0 % 8.7 % Operating income $ 1,964 $ 2,259 $ 1,906 Operating income as a percentage of net sales 2.3 % 3.1 % 3.0 % Unit counts at period end 600 600 599 Retail square feet at period end 80 80 80 

Excluding Fuel (1) 

Net sales $ 71,665 $ 64,860 $ 59,184 Percentage change from comparable period 10.5 % 9.6 % 12.1 % Operating income $ 1,352 $ 1,923 $ 1,645 Operating income as a percentage of net sales 1.9 % 3.0 % 2.8 % ##TABLE_END

(1) We believe the "Excluding Fuel" information is useful to investors because it permits investors to understand the effect of the Sam's Club segment's fuel sales on its results of operations, which are impacted by the volatility of fuel prices. Volatility in fuel prices may continue to impact the operating results of the Sam's Club segment in the future. Management uses such information to better measure underlying operating results in the segment. 

Net sales for the Sam's Club segment increased $10.8 billion or 14.7% and $9.6 billion or 15.1% for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. For fiscal 2023, the increase was primarily due to comparable sales growth, including fuel, of 14.6%. Comparable sales benefited from growth in transactions and average ticket and included higher inflation impacts in certain merchandise categories. Sam's Club eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 0.8% to comparable sales which was primarily driven by ship to home and curbside pickup. For fiscal 2022, the increase was primarily due to comparable sales growth, including fuel, of 15.0%. Comparable sales benefited from growth in transactions and average ticket due to increased consumer spending, which was aided by government stimulus, and also includes some 

higher inflation impacts in certain merchandise categories. The growth in comparable sales was partially offset by our decision to remove tobacco from certain club locations. Sam's Club eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 1.3% to comparable sales. 

Gross profit rate decreased 155 basis points and 68 basis points for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. For fiscal 2023, the decrease in gross profit rate was primarily due to inventory write-downs, elevated supply chain and eCommerce fulfillment costs and inflation related LIFO charges. For fiscal 2022 , gross profit rate decreased primarily due to increased fuel sales which have lower margins, cost inflation, and higher supply chain costs, partially offset by favorable sales mix, including reduced tobacco sales. 

Membership and other income increased 7.0% and 13.1% for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. For fiscal 2023 and 2022, the increase was primarily due to increases in new member sign-ups and Plus member penetration. 

Operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales decreased 97 basis points and 82 basis points for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. Fiscal 2023 operating expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased primarily due to higher sales. Fiscal 2022 operating expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased primarily due to higher sales as well as a benefit from $0.2 billion of lower incremental COVID-19 related costs, partially offset by reduced tobacco sales. 

As a result of the factors discussed above, segment operating income decreased $0.3 billion and increased $0.4 billion for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Liquidity 

The strength and stability of our operations have historically supplied us with a significant source of liquidity. Our cash flows provided by operating activities, supplemented with our long-term debt and short-term borrowings, have been sufficient to fund our operations while allowing us to invest in activities that support the long-term growth of our operations. Generally, some or all of the remaining available cash flow has been used to fund dividends on our common stock and share repurchases. We believe our sources of liquidity will continue to be sufficient to fund operations, finance our global investment activities, pay dividends and fund our share repurchases for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. 

Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 

##TABLE_START Fiscal Years Ended January 31, (Amounts in millions) 2023 2022 2021 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 28,841 $ 24,181 $ 36,074 ##TABLE_END

Net cash provided by operating activities was $28.8 billion, $24.2 billion and $36.1 billion for fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2023 increased when compared to the previous fiscal year. The increase is primarily due to moderated levels of inventory purchases, partially offset by a decline in operating income and the timing of certain payments. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2022, when compared to the previous fiscal year, was primarily due to an increase in inventory costs and purchases to support strong sales and lapping the impact of accelerated inventory sell-through in fiscal 2021, as well as timing and payment of wages. 

Cash Equivalents and Working Capital Deficit 

Cash and cash equivalents were $8.6 billion and $14.8 billion as of January 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Our working capital deficit, defined as total current assets less total current liabilities, was $16.5 billion and $6.3 billion as of January 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The increase in our working capital deficit is primarily driven by a decrease in cash and cash equivalents and an increase in accrued liabilities. We generally operate with a working capital deficit due to our efficient use of cash in funding operations, consistent access to the capital markets and returns provided to our shareholders in the form of payments of cash dividends and share repurchases. 

We use intercompany financing arrangements in an effort to ensure cash can be made available in the country in which it is needed with the minimum cost possible. Additionally, from time-to-time, we repatriate earnings and related cash from jurisdictions outside of the U.S. Historically, U.S. taxes were due upon repatriation of foreign earnings. Due to the enactment of U.S. tax reform, repatriations of foreign earnings will generally be free of U.S. federal tax, but may incur other taxes such as withholding or state taxes. We do not expect current local laws, other existing limitations on anticipated future repatriations of cash amounts held outside the U.S. to have a material effect on our overall liquidity, financial position or results of operations. 

As of January 31, 2023 and 2022, cash and cash equivalents of $2.9 billion and $4.3 billion, respectively, may not be freely transferable to the U.S. due to local laws or other restrictions or are subject to the approval of the noncontrolling interest shareholders. 

Net Cash Used in Investing Activities 

##TABLE_START &#160; Fiscal Years Ended January 31, (Amounts in millions) 2023 2022 2021 Net cash used in investing activities $ (17,722) $ (6,015) $ (10,071) ##TABLE_END

Net cash used in investing activities was $17.7 billion , $6.0 billion and $10.1 billion for fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively, and generally consisted of capital expenditures. Net cash used in investing activities increased $11.7 billion for fiscal 2023 when compared to the previous fiscal year primarily due to the result of lapping the net proceeds received from the divestitures of our operations in the U.K. and Japan and an increase in capital expenditures to support our investment strategy. Net cash used in investing activities decreased $4.1 billion for fiscal 2022 when compared to the previous fiscal year, primarily due to the net proceeds received from the divestitures of our operations in the U.K. and Japan, partially offset by increased capital expenditures. 

Capital expenditures 

Refer to the " Strategic Capital Allocation " section in our Company Performance Metrics for capital expenditure detail for fiscal 2023 and 2022. For the fiscal year ending January 31, 2024 ("fiscal 2024"), we project capital expenditures will be approximately $17 billion to $18 billion, with a focus on technology, supply chain, and customer-facing initiatives. 

Net Cash Used in Financing Activities 

##TABLE_START &#160; Fiscal Years Ended January 31, (Amounts in millions) 2023 2022 2021 Net cash used in financing activities $ (17,039) $ (22,828) $ (16,117) ##TABLE_END

Net cash from financing activities generally consists of debt transactions, dividends paid, repurchases of Company stock and transactions with noncontrolling interest shareholders. Fiscal 2023 net cash used in financing activities decreased $5.8 billion when compared to the previous fiscal year. The decrease is primarily due to repayments of long-term debt and related payment of premiums for the early extinguishment of certain notes in the prior fiscal period, partially offset by the equity funding from the sale of subsidiary stock in the prior fiscal period. Fiscal 2022 net cash used in financing activities increased $6.7 billion when compared to the previous fiscal year. The increase was primarily due to repayments of long-term debt and related payment of premiums for the early extinguishment of certain notes, as well as increased share repurchases, partially offset by long-term debt issuances and equity funding from the sale of subsidiary stock. 

Purchase and Sale of Subsidiary Stoc k 

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023, the Company completed a $0.4 billion buyout of the noncontrolling interest shareholders of the Company's Massmart subsidiary. This transaction increased the Company's ownership of Massmart from approximately 53% to 100%. Additionally, the Company completed a $0.4 billion acquisition of Alert Innovation, which was previously consolidated as a variable interest entity and resulted in the Company becoming a 100% owner. 

During fiscal 2022, the Company received $3.2 billion primarily related to a new equity funding for the Company's majority-owned Flipkart subsidiary, which reduced the Company's ownership from approximately 83% as of January 31, 2021 to approximately 75%. 

Short-term Borrowings 

We generally utilize the liquidity provided by short-term borrowings to provide funding for our operations, dividend payments, share repurchases, capital expenditures and other cash requirements. The following table includes additional information related to the Company's short-term borrowings for fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021: ##TABLE_START &#160; Fiscal Years Ended January 31, (Amounts in millions) 2023 2022 2021 Maximum amount outstanding at any month-end $ 11,432 $ 716 $ 4,048 Average daily short-term borrowings 7,250 626 1,577 Annual weighted-average interest rate 2.4 % 3.7 % 3.1 % ##TABLE_END Short-term borrowings as of January 31, 2023 and 2022 were $0.4 billion, with weighted-average interest rates of 6.6% and 2.9%, respectively. We also have $15.0 billion of various undrawn committed lines of credit in the U.S. as of January 31, 2023 that provide additional liquidity, if needed. Additionally, we maintain access to various credit facilities outside of the U.S. to further support our Walmart International segment operations, as needed. 

As of January 31, 2023, we have $2.1 billion of syndicated and fronted letters of credit available, of which $1.8 billion was drawn and represents an unrecorded current obligation. 

Long-term Debt 

The following table provides the changes in our long-term debt for fiscal 2023: 

##TABLE_START (Amounts in millions) Long-term debt due within one year Long-term debt Total Balances as of February 1, 2022 $ 2,803 $ 34,864 $ 37,667 Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt &#8212; 5,041 5,041 Repayments of long-term debt (2,689) &#8212; (2,689) Reclassifications of long-term debt 4,197 (4,197) &#8212; Currency and other adjustments (120) (1,059) (1,179) Balances as of January 31, 2023 $ 4,191 $ 34,649 $ 38,840 ##TABLE_END

Our total outstanding long-term debt increased $1.2 billion during fiscal 2023, primarily due to the issuance of new long-term debt in September 2022, partially offset by the maturities of certain long-term debt. Refer to Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for details on the issuances of long-term debt. 

Estimated contractual interest payments associated with our long-term debt amount to $18.8 billion, with approximately $1.7 billion expected to be paid in fiscal 2024. Estimated interest payments are based on our principal amounts and expected maturities of all debt outstanding as of January 31, 2023 and assumes interest rates remain at current levels for our variable rate instruments. 

Dividends 

Our total dividend payments were $6.1 billion , $6.2 billion and $6.1 billion for fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Effective February 21, 2023, the Company approved the fiscal 2024 annual dividend of $2.28 per share, an increase over the fiscal 2023 annual dividend of $2.24 per share. For fiscal 2024, the annual dividend will be paid in four quarterly installments of $0.57 per share, according to the following record and payable dates: 

##TABLE_START Record Date Payable Date March 17, 2023 April 3, 2023 May 5, 2023 May 30, 2023 August 11, 2023 September 5, 2023 December 8, 2023 January 2, 2024 ##TABLE_END

Company Share Repurchase Program 

From time to time, the Company repurchases shares of its common stock under share repurchase programs authorized by the Company's Board of Directors. All repurchases made during the fiscal year prior to November 21, 2022 were made under the plan in effect at the beginning of fiscal 2022. In November 2022, the Company approved a new $20.0 billion share repurchase program which, beginning on November 21, 2022, replaced the previous share repurchase program. As of January 31, 2023, authorization for $ 19.3 billion of share repurchases remained under the share repurchase program. Any repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to an unissued status. 

We regularly review share repurchase activity and consider several factors in determining when to execute share repurchases, including, among other things, current cash needs, capacity for leverage, cost of borrowings, our results of operations and the market price of our common stock. We anticipate that a majority of the ongoing share repurchase program will be funded through the Company's free cash flow. 

The following table provides, on a settlement date basis, the number of shares repurchased, average price paid per share and total amount paid for share repurchases for fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021: 

##TABLE_START Fiscal Years Ended January 31, (Amounts in millions, except per share data) 2023 2022 2021 Total number of shares repurchased 73.9 69.7 19.4 Average price paid per share $ 134.17 $ 140.45 $ 135.20 Total amount paid for share repurchases $ 9,920 $ 9,787 $ 2,625 ##TABLE_END

Material Cash Requirements 

Material cash requirements from operating activities primarily consist of inventory purchases, employee related costs, taxes, interest and other general operating expenses, which we expect to be primarily satisfied by our cash from operations. Other material cash requirements from known contractual and other obligations include opioid and other legal settlements, short-term borrowings, long-term debt and related interest payments, leases, purchases of subsidiary stock and purchase obligations. See Note 3 , Note 6 and Note 7 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding purchase of subsidiary stock, outstanding short-term borrowings and long-term debt, and leases, respectively. 

As of January 31, 2023, the Company has $33.3 billion of unrecorded purchase obligations outstanding, of which $11.6 billion is due within one year. Purchase obligations include legally binding contracts, such as firm commitments for inventory and utility purchases, as well as commitments to make capital expenditures, software acquisition and license commitments and legally binding service contracts. Contractual obligations for the purchase of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Contracts that specify the Company will purchase all or a portion of its requirements of a specific product or service from a supplier, but do not include a fixed or minimum quantity, are excluded from the obligations quantified above. Accordingly, purchase orders for inventory are also excluded as purchase orders represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. Our purchase orders are based on our current inventory needs and are fulfilled by our suppliers within short time periods. We also enter into contracts for outsourced services; however, the obligations under these contracts are not significant and the contracts generally contain clauses allowing for cancellation without significant penalty. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the timing of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations. 

Capital Resources 

We believe our cash flows from operations, current cash position, short-term borrowings and access to capital markets will continue to be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements and contractual obligations, which includes funding seasonal buildups in merchandise inventories and funding our capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividend payments and share repurchases. 

We have strong commercial paper and long-term debt ratings that have enabled and should continue to enable us to refinance our debt as it becomes due at favorable rates in capital markets. As of January 31, 2023, the ratings assigned to our commercial paper and rated series of our outstanding long-term debt were as follows: 

##TABLE_START Rating agency &#160; Commercial paper &#160; Long-term debt Standard &#38; Poor's &#160; A-1+ &#160; AA Moody's Investors Service &#160; P-1 &#160; Aa2 Fitch Ratings &#160; F1+ &#160; AA ##TABLE_END

Credit rating agencies review their ratings periodically and, therefore, the credit ratings assigned to us by each agency may be subject to revision at any time. Accordingly, we are not able to predict whether our current credit ratings will remain consistent over time. Factors that could affect our credit ratings include changes in our operating performance, the general economic environment, conditions in the retail industry, our financial position, including our total debt and capitalization, and changes in our business strategy. Any downgrade of our credit ratings by a credit rating agency could increase our future borrowing costs or impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms commercially acceptable to us. In addition, any downgrade of our current short-term credit ratings could impair our ability to access the commercial paper markets with the same flexibility that we have experienced historically, potentially requiring us to rely more heavily on more expensive types of debt financing. The credit rating agency ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our commercial paper or debt securities. Each rating may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization and should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Moreover, each credit rating is specific to the security to which it applies. 

Other Matters 

In Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which is captioned "Contingencies" and appears in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption " Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ," we discuss, under the sub-captions " Settlement Framework Regarding Multidistrict and State or Local Opioid Related Litigation ," and " Other Opioid Related Litigation " the Prescription Opiate Litigation, the Settlement Framework, and other matters, including certain risks arising therefrom. In that Note 10 , we also discuss under the sub-caption " Asda Equal Value Claims" the Company's indemnification obligation for the Asda Equal Value Claims matter as well as under the sub-caption " Money Transfer Agent Services Matters ", a United States Federal Trade Commission complaint related to money transfers and the Company's anti-fraud program and a government investigation by the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Middle District of Pennsylvania into the Company's consumer fraud prevention and anti-money laundering compliance related to the Company's money transfer agent services. We discuss various legal proceedings related to the Federal and State Prescription Opiate Litigation, the Settlement Framework, DOJ Opioid Civil Litigation and Opioids Related Securities Class Actions and Derivative Litigation in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption " Item 3. Legal Proceedings ," under the sub-caption "I. Supplemental Information." We also discuss items related to the Asda Equal Value Claims matter, the Money Transfer Agent Services Matters and the Foreign Direct Investment matters in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption " Item 3. Legal Proceedings ," under the sub-caption "II. Certain Other Matters." We also discuss an environmental matter with the State of California in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption " Item 3. Legal Proceedings ," under the sub-caption "III. Environmental Matters." The foregoing matters and other matters described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K represent contingent liabilities of the Company that may or may not result in the incurrence of a material liability by the Company upon their final resolution. 

Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates 

Management strives to report our financial results in a clear and understandable manner, although in some cases accounting and disclosure rules are complex and require us to use technical terminology. In preparing the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements, we follow accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. These principles require us to make certain estimates and apply judgments that affect our financial position and results of operations as reflected in our financial statements. These judgments and estimates are based on past events and expectations of future outcomes. Actual results may differ from our estimates. 

Management continually reviews our accounting policies including how they are applied and how they are reported and disclosed in our financial statements. Following is a summary of our critical accounting estimates and how they are applied in preparation of the financial statements. 

Inventories 

The Walmart U.S. segment comprises the largest portion of our inventory and is primarily accounted for under the retail inventory method of accounting to determine inventory cost, using the last-in, first-out ("LIFO") valuation method. The majority of the Sam's Club segment inventories are accounted for and valued using the weighted-average cost LIFO method. When necessary, we record a LIFO provision for the estimated annual effect of inflation, and these estimates are adjusted to actual results determined at year-end. As a measure of sensitivity, an incremental 1% inflationary impact to the cost of our inventory purchases would not have resulted in a material increase to the LIFO provision recorded during fiscal 2023. 

Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets 

Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are stated at the fair value acquired as determined by a valuation technique commensurate with the intended use of the related asset. Significant estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include, but are not limited to, the amount and timing of future cash flows, growth rates, discount rates and useful lives. Indefinite-lived acquired intangible assets are not amortized but are evaluated for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the value of the asset may be impaired. Generally, this evaluation begins with a qualitative assessment to determine whether a quantitative impairment test is necessary. If we determine, after performing an assessment based on qualitative factors, that the fair value of the indefinite-lived acquired intangible asset is more likely than not less than the carrying amount, then a quantitative impairment test would be performed. The quantitative test for impairment requires management to make judgments relating to future cash flows, growth rates and economic and market conditions. Our indefinite-lived acquired intangible assets have historically generated sufficient returns to recover their cost. Because of the nature of the factors used in these tests, if different conditions occur in future periods, future operating results could be materially impacted. 

Contingencies 

We are involved in a number of legal proceedings and certain regulatory matters. We record a liability when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable. We also perform an assessment of the materiality of loss contingencies where a loss is either reasonably possible or it is reasonably possible that a loss could be incurred in excess of 

amounts accrued. If a loss or an additional loss has at least a reasonable possibility of occurring and the impact on the financial statements would be material, we provide disclosure of the loss contingency in the footnotes to our financial statements. We review all contingencies at least quarterly to determine whether the likelihood of loss has changed and to assess whether a reasonable estimate of the loss or the range of the loss can be made. Although we are not able to predict the outcome or reasonably estimate a range of possible losses in certain matters described in Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements and have not recorded an associated accrual related to these matters, an adverse judgment or negotiated resolution in any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

Income Taxes 

Income taxes have a significant effect on our net earnings. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Accordingly, the determination of our provision for income taxes requires judgment, the use of estimates in certain cases and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Our effective income tax rate is affected by many factors, including changes in our assessment of unrecognized tax benefits, increases and decreases in valuation allowances, changes in tax law, outcomes of administrative audits, the impact of discrete items and the mix of earnings among our U.S. and international operations where the statutory rates are generally higher than the U.S. statutory rate, and may fluctuate as a result. 

Our tax returns are routinely audited and settlements of issues raised in these audits sometimes affect our tax provisions. The benefits of uncertain tax positions are recorded in our financial statements only after determining a more likely than not probability that the uncertain tax positions will withstand challenge, if any, from taxing authorities. When facts and circumstances change, we reassess these probabilities and record any changes in the financial statements as appropriate. We account for uncertain tax positions by determining the minimum recognition threshold that a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial statements. This determination requires the use of judgment in evaluating our tax positions and assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items. 

Deferred tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable on taxable income in future years. Such assets arise because of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as well as from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets are evaluated for future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent that a portion is not more likely than not to be realized. Many factors are considered when assessing whether it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized, including recent cumulative earnings, expectations of future taxable income, carryforward periods and other relevant quantitative and qualitative factors. The recoverability of the deferred tax assets is evaluated by assessing the adequacy of future expected taxable income from all sources, including reversal of taxable temporary differences, forecasted operating earnings and available tax planning strategies. This evaluation relies on estimates. 

As guidance is issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies, any resulting changes to our estimates will be treated in accordance with the relevant accounting guidance. 

##TABLE_START 

Instruction: 
According to the given information, 
1. Briefly describe the company overview and company's industry, using the structure: "Founded in xxxx, 'company name' is a xxxx that provides .....
2. Highlight core strengths and competitive advantages key products or services,
3. Include topics about end market (geography), major customers (blue chip or not), market share for market position section,
4. Identify current industry trends, opportunities, and challenges that influence the company's strategy,
5. Outline recent strategic initiatives such as product launches, acquisitions, or new partnerships, and describe the company's response to market conditions. 
Less than 300 words.


Instruction: Summarize the analysis, less than 130 words.